## Essay
It is a highly debated issue that attaining broad knowledge is better than specializing in one specific subject. As far as I am concerned, I agree with the statement. Some reasons justifies why I think broad knowledge lead to a more remarkable future, and I would explore only a few of the most important ones here.

To begin with, to some extent, people are easily perplexed by the future which can constantly alternate from one subject to another field. The future is uncertain only for the world which changes with the resources and economy but also for individuals who do not realize what their enthusiasms are. A  person who obtain a conspicuous objective usually fall into despair which cause them to survive as a dead person. Taking myself as instance, when I was at senior high school, I unmitigatedly lost my aim to the future since lots of arduous subjects, such as chemistry, maths, literature, overwhelmed me. I studied those boring subjects a day after a day until I picked up a optional class: software programming. 

Secondly, mixed-subjected applications extensively exist in our society. As a matter of the fact, all of industries are composed of multiple fields including business management, human resource management, hardware and software; thus, if a person is capable of handling multiple tasks which are associated with different fields, he has the better opportunity to achieve a outstanding job or to get promoted to a higher position. As an illustration of my classmate of the college, he majored in account and he attended to classes of computer science faculty which is my major. In fact, he achieved a brilliant score in both area. After his graduation, he was immediately hired by a renowned company of finance business which promoted him as a manager after a few years. Concerning his effort and knowledge in multiplex areas, it is undoubted that he can obtain such achievement in only a few years. 

Taking into account of these factors, we may reach the conclusion that broad knowledge bring more chances than specialize only in one area, which is due half to obscurity of the future and personal pursue and half to applications of plural subjects.

## Review
It is a highly debated issue that attaining broad knowledge is better than specializing in one specific subject. As far as I am concerned, I agree with the statement. Some reasons justifies why I think broad knowledge lead to a more remarkable future, and I would explore only a few of the most important ones here.

To begin with, to some extent, people are easily perplexed by the future which constantly alternates from one subject to another field. The future is uncertain *not* only for the world which changes with the resources and economy but also for individuals who do not realize what their enthusiasms are. A person who *doesn't* obtain a conspicuous objective usually fall into despair which cause them to *fail to accomplish their bucket list*. Taking myself as instance, when I was at senior high school, I unmitigatedly lost my aim to the future since lots of arduous subjects, such as chemistry, maths, literature and etc., overwhelmed me. I studied those boring subjects *day in day out* until I picked up *an* optional class: software programming. *Subsequently, I perceived that what I had learned was so meaningful that represent disparate responsibilities in computer software that utilize literature as guidance for users, mathematics as logical concoction, and art as an visual interface. Up to now, I have readily researched various topics about computer science which requires physics that produce a verisimilar games and music composition that immerse users. Besides software, I even learned a vast array of business knowledge which assist me in planning the budget and in promoting my works by advertising. Therefore, in my opinion, people should face miscellaneous knowledge until they shape a outline of their future. However, it is just a beginning that lead to explore more areas rather than an end.*

Secondly, *combined* applications extensively exist in our society. *As a matter of fact*, most of industries are definitely composed of multiple fields including business management, human resource management, hardware, software and so on; thus, if a person is capable of handling multiple tasks which are associated with different fields, he has the better opportunity to achieve a outstanding job or to get promoted to a higher position. As an illustration of my classmate of the college, he majored in account and he attended to classes of computer science faculty *in which I majored*. In fact, he achieved a brilliant score in both *areas*. After his graduation, he was immediately hired by a renowned company of financial industry which promoted him as a manager *of technological department* after a few years. Concerning his effort and knowledge in multiplex areas, it is undoubted that he can obtain such achievement in only a few years. 

Taking into account of these factors, we may reach the conclusion that broad knowledge bring more chances than *specialization of only one area*, which is due half to obscurity of the future and half to applications of *combining a variety of* subjects. *Put simply, extensive learning is the principal aspect of success*.

## Vocab
- different 不同的 == disparate == distinct == distinctive == diverse
- multiple 多樣的 == miscellaneous == assorted == various = a variety of == diversified == manifold
- lead 引領 == contribute to == draw == influence == guide mentally == head == prompt 

## Topic
Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? 
It is better to have broad knowledge of many academic subjects than to specialize in one specific subject.
Use specific reasons and examples to support your answer.