## Essay
The reading and the lecture are both about a memoir of the Chevalier de Seingalt. The author of the reading feels that some curious points disprove that the memoir composes of some fictional stories. The lecturer challenges the claims made by the author. In short, she is of the opinion is that the memoir is overall accurate.

To begin with, the author contends that the Chevalier is not as wealthy as he described in the memoir. The article mentions that the Chevalier borrowed lots of money from a Swiss merchant to spend on paries and gambling. The specific argument is challenged by the lecturer who claims borrowing money doesn't represent the poor condition of the Chevalier. Additionally, she says that the Chevalier had plenty of expensive properties. Before those properties were sold to become coins which are spent in gambling, the Chevalier absolutely required some money from a loan.

Secondly, the writer suggests that the conversation between the Chevalier and the famous writer Voltaire is possibly inaccurate. In the article, it is said that these conversation are recorded in the memoir after a few years in which their meetings occurred. Concerning the situation, the content in the memoir is not as exact as the real conversation. The lecturer, however, rebuts this by remarking that the Chevalier noted every meeting in the night after the end of conversation. She elaborates on this by bringing up the point that the Chevalier used these records to compile his memoir and thus the phrase in the book should be close to the actual conversations.

Finally, the author posits that the escaping from a notorious prison in Venice should be bombastic. Moreover, it is stated in the article that some evidence showed that the Chevalier had some powerful friends who could make a bride to release the Chevalier. In contrast, the lecturer's position is that those friends can not free the Chevalier from the prison in that his enemies were more puissant than the friends of the Chevalier. She notes that there are some old documents of Venice government substantiated that the Chevalier really made a hole in the ceiling and escaped.

## Review
The reading and the lecture are both about a memoir of the Chevalier de Seingalt. The author of the reading feels that some curious points disprove that the memoir *were* *completely* *composed* of *authentic* stories. The lecturer challenges the claims made by the author. In short, she is of the opinion is that the memoir is overall accurate.

To begin with, the author contends that the Chevalier is not as wealthy as he described in the memoir. The article mentions that the Chevalier borrowed lots of money from a Swiss merchant to spend on paries and gambling. The specific argument is challenged by the lecturer who claims borrowing money doesn't represent the poor condition of the Chevalier. Additionally, she says that the Chevalier had plenty of expensive properties. Before those properties were sold to become coins which are spent in gambling, the Chevalier absolutely required some money *in advance* from a loan.

Secondly, the writer suggests that the conversation between the Chevalier and the famous writer Voltaire is possibly inaccurate. In the article, it is said that these conversation are recorded in the memoir after a few years in which their meetings occurred. Concerning the situation, the content in the memoir is not as exact as the real conversation. The lecturer, however, rebuts this by remarking that the Chevalier noted every meeting in the night after the end of conversation. She elaborates on this by bringing up the point that the Chevalier used these records to compile his memoir, *which was confirmed by the witnesses who lived with the Chevalier in his later life*, and thus the *phrases* in the book should be close to the actual conversations.

Finally, the author posits that the escaping from a notorious prison in Venice should be bombastic. Moreover, it is stated in the article that some evidence showed that the Chevalier had some powerful friends who could make a bride to release the Chevalier. In contrast, the lecturer's position is that those friends can not free the Chevalier from the prison in that *other prisoner who own more puissant friends by no means to achieve it*. She notes that there are some old documents of *the* government *indirectly* substantiated that the Chevalier really made a hole in the ceiling and escaped *because the ceiling had to be repaired after his breakout*.

## Vocab
- powerful 有權勢的 == puissant
- real 真實的 == actual == authentic == sincere == substantial
- prove 證實 == confirm == justify == substantiate == validate == verify

## Lecture
Now listen to part of a lecture on the topic you just read about.

No memoir can possibly be correct in every detail, but still, the Chevalier's memoir is pretty accurate overall and is, by and large, a reliable historical source. Let's look at the accuracy of the three episodes mentioned in the reading.

First, the loan from the merchant: Well, that doesn't mean that the Chevalier was poor. Let me explain. We know that in Switzerland, the Chevalier spent huge amounts of money on parties and on gambling. And he had wealth, but **it was the kind of property you have to sell first to get money**. So it usually **took a few days to convert his assets into actual money.** So when he ran out of cash, he had to borrow some while he was waiting for his money to arrive—but that's not being poor!

Second, the conversations with Voltaire: The Chevalier states in his memoir that each night, immediately after conversing with Voltaire, *he wrote down everything he could remember about that particular night's conversation.* Evidently, the Chevalier kept his notes of these conversations for many years and referred to them when writing the memoir. *Witnesses who lived with the Chevalier in his later life confirm that he regularly consulted notes and journals when composing the memoir.*

Third, the Chevalier's escape from the prison in Venice: **Other prisoners in that prison had even more powerful friends than he did, and none of them were ever able to bribe their way to freedom, so bribery hardly seems likely in his case.** The best evidence, though, comes from some old Venetian government documents. They indicate that soon after the Chevalier escaped from the prison, the ceiling of his old prison room had to be repaired. Why would they need to repair a ceiling unless he had escaped exactly as he said he did?

## Passage
Toward the end of his life, the Chevalier de Seingalt (1725−1798) wrote a long memoir recounting his life and adventures. The Chevalier was a somewhat controversial figure, but since he met many famous people, including kings and writers, his memoir has become a valuable historical source about European society in the eighteenth century. However, some critics have raised doubts about the accuracy of the memoir. They claim that the Chevalier distorted or invented many events in the memoir to make his life seem more exciting and glamorous than it really was.

For example, in his memoir the Chevalier claims that while living in Switzerland, he was very wealthy, and it is known that he spent a great deal of money there on parties and gambling. However, evidence has recently surfaced that the Chevalier borrowed considerable sums of money from a Swiss merchant. Critics thus argue that if the Chevalier had really been very rich, he would not have needed to borrow money.

Critics are also skeptical about the accuracy of the conversations that the Chevalier records in the memoir between himself and the famous writer Voltaire. No one doubts that the Chevalier and Voltaire met and conversed. However, critics complain that the memoir cannot possibly capture these conversations accurately, because it was written many years after the conversations occurred. Critics point out that it is impossible to remember exact phrases from extended conversations held many years earlier.

Critics have also questioned the memoir's account of the Chevalier's escape from a notorious prison in Venice, Italy. He claims to have escaped the Venetian prison by using a piece of metal to make a hole in the ceiling and climbing through the roof. Critics claim that while such a daring escape makes for enjoyable reading, it is more likely that the Chevalier's jailers were bribed to free him. They point out that the Chevalier had a number of politically well-connected friends in Venice who could have offered a bribe.