## Essay
Some people argue as if it is a general truth that children should be prevented from playing computer games which is time-wasting. To be frank, I can not agree with the statement. Some reasons justifies why I think that computer games have many advantages, and I would explore a few of the most important ones here.

To begin with, computer games are the production from the cooperation of multiple areas, including programming, playwriting, musical composition, art design, and advertising. If one of those industries doesn't take part in, computer games will not be so successful that people throughout the world can play them. In my opinion, video games are the most effective way showing the work of many industries. For example, how does an artist prove the talent to the world? Traditionally, there is only one resolution: *exhibition* which cost the enormous time, location, and the money. In contrast, video games are a medium to which countless people are accessible without hosting an show that will be rotated in many countries to attract more and more people to appreciate. With the occurrence of mobile devices, people always contact with many types of video games such as puzzling, *rythme*, action, and etc. From my point of view, even compared to films, the quality of music, art, and story exceed them. By the increasing number of played games, children may learn that what is a better game by absorbing disparate remarkable elements of a game which might cause them to become a better programmer, an artist, a playwright or all of them.

Secondly, playing videos games is a positive entertainment which helps people to relax even within a short period. Many entertainment require a volume of time or some people to attend. On the other hand, playing video games need a person and takes a little time when it comes to mobile games which are broadly defined as a type of computer games. Taking me as experience, in my pervious work, I had a long commute time which is usually taking 60 minutes. I would like to play mobile games during the period in which I frequently played puzzling games in the morning and some adventurous games after thw work. Playing puzzling games in the morning help me to distinguish and stimulate my thought, which made me prepared to handle tasks of the job. On the other hand, Gaming after the work lead me to relax and face the rest of events at night. I considered about whether reading books is a better solution within my daily commute, but, however, it cause me feeling uncomfortable when reading on bus. By playing the games, I had a better focus in the job with only a short time of playing.

Taking into account of all these factors, we may reach the conclusion that playing computer games actually have some benefits even for a child, which is due half to the fact that they are composed of many different industries and half to the fact that they can a convenient way that improve focus and relaxation.

## Review
Some people argue as if it is a general truth that children should be prevented from playing computer games which is *considered to be* time-wasting. To be frank, I can not agree with the statement. Some reasons justifies why I think that computer games have many advantages, and I would explore a few of the most important ones here.

To begin with, computer games are the *consequence by* the cooperation of multiple areas, including programming, playwriting, musical composition, art design, and advertising. If one of those industries doesn't take part in, computer games will not be so successful that people throughout the world can play *and relish* them. In my opinion, video games are the most effective way showing the work of many industries. For example, how does an artist prove the talent to the world? Traditionally, there is only one answer: *exhibition* which cost the enormous time, *space*, and the money. In contrast, video games are a medium to which countless people are accessible without hosting an show that will be rotated in many countries to *attract more people* to appreciate. With the occurrence of mobile devices, people always contact with many types of video games such as puzzling, *rythme*, action, and etc. From my point of view, the quality of music, art, and story exceed *those in films*. *Moreover, by* the increasing number of played games, children may learn that what is a better game by absorbing disparate remarkable elements of a game which might cause them to become a better programmer, an artist, a playwright or all of them.

Secondly, playing videos games is a positive entertainment which helps people to relax even within a short period. Many entertainment require a volume of time or some people to attend. On the other hand, playing video games need a person and takes a *temporary* time when it comes to mobile games which are broadly defined as a type of computer games. Taking me as experience, in my pervious work, I had a long commute time which was usually taking two hours a day. I would like to play mobile games during the period in which I frequently played puzzling games in the morning and some adventurous games after thw work. Playing puzzling games in the morning help me to distinguish and stimulate my thought, which made me prepared to handle tasks of the job. On the other hand, *gaming* after the work *led* me to relax and face the rest of events at night. *Admittedly,* I considered about whether reading books is a better solution within my daily commute, but, however, it cause me feeling uncomfortable *and dizzy* when reading on bus. By playing the games, I had a more *outstanding* *concentration* *with only a short time of playing.*

Taking into account of all these factors, we may reach the conclusion that playing computer games actually have some benefits even for a child, which is due half to the fact that *children can realize how to appreciate and evaluate those elements* and half to the fact that they can *be* a convenient way that improve focus and relaxation.

## Vocab
- short 短暫的 == temporary == brief == momentary == transitory

## Topic
Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? 
Playing computer games is a waste of time. Children should not be allowed to play them.
Use specific reasons and examples to support your answer.