
## Questions

In 1798, economist Thomas Robert Malthus stated in his "Essay on the Principle of Population" that "population increases in a geometric ratio, while the means of subsistence increases in an arithmetic ratio." However, Malthuss **dire prediction of a precipitous decline in the worlds population** has not come to pass. The miscalculations in what has come to be known as the Malthus Doctrine are partly due to Malthuss **inability to foresee the innovations that allowed vast increases in worldwide wheat production.**

In the late nineteenth century, the invention of the tractor *staved off* a Malthusian disaster. While the first tractors were not particularly powerful, the replacement of animals by machinery meant that land that had been devoted to hay and oats could now be reclaimed for growth of crops for human consumption. Nevertheless, the Malthusian limit might still have been reached if crop yield had not been increased.

A natural way to increase crop yield is to supply the soil with additional nitrogen. In 1909, chemist Fritz Haber succeeded in combining nitrogen and hydrogen to make ammonia, the white powder version of which, when added to the soil, improves wheat production. Haber nitrogen, however, was not widely used until later in the twentieth century, largely due to **farmers resistance to spreading an unnatural substance on their crops**. Habers invention had a f**urther drawback**: If applied in incorrect quantities, the wheat crop would grow taller and thicker, eventually toppling over and rotting.

Interestingly, in the late twentieth century the discovery of **genetic engineering**, which provides a means of increasing rice and maize production, **met with equal resistance**, this time **from the environmental movement**. Even without direct genetic engineering, it is likely that science will discover new methods to improve agricultural production.

1. According to the passage, which is of the following is true about Haber nitrogen?
	1. Haber nitrogen is **more** effective at increasing the yield of wheat crops than that of maize or oat crops.
	1. Undesired effects can result from the application of surplus quantities of Haber nitrogen.
	1. Haber nitrogen was the **first** non-naturally occurring substance to be applied to crops as fertilizer.
	1. Haber nitrogen may not be effective if applied at an **improper time** in wheat's growth cycle.
	1. **Farmers were quick to adopt** Haber nitrogen because it made their crops grow taller and thicker.

2. The passage **implies** all of the following __EXCEPT__
	1. world food production has kept pace with world population growth
	1. technological innovation is one factor that allowed for an increase in crop production
	1. farmers are not the only group that has opposed artificial efforts to increase crop yield.
	1. the Malthusian limit might well have been reached if new methods to increase crop production had not been found
	1. [O] a Malthusian disaster would have been ensured if it were not for the invention of genetic engineering

The dearth of natural resources on the Australian continent is a problem with which government officials there have long struggled. As long distance travel has become less of an obstacle, **the tourism industry has become ever more important** to the national economy. Tourism represents more than 10 percent of national export earnings annually, and in less developed regions such as the Western Territory, the percentage is much higher.

Unfortunately, this __otherwise rosy prospect has one significant cloud on the horizon__. In recent years, there has been **a move towards returning some of the land to the Aboriginal people.** As Western society and culture have flourished on Australian soil, tribal people have been forced ever farther inland in an attempt to maintain their traditional ways of living, a desire that the government has striven to respect.

One of the central beliefs of the Aboriginal **religion** is that certain natural formations have spiritual significance and must be treated accordingly. Strict guidelines determine who may visit these sites and at what times. **Unfortunately, many of these sites are the very natural wonders tourists flock to see**. If non-Aboriginal people are forbidden to visit these natural wonders, many may choose not to vacation in a region that sorely needs the income generated by tourism.

The Australian government has dealt with this dilemma thus far by trying to support both sides. The Aboriginal council is still trying to put an end to such use of certain sites, however, and **it remains to be seen whether philanthropic or economic desires will ultimately triumph.**

3. In the context of the passage, which of the following most closely matches the meaning of the phrase "__otherwise rosy prospect has one significant cloud on the horizon"__?
	1. A colorful sunset is marred by a dark storm cloud.
	1. A generally promising future has a potential problem.
	1. The view is beautiful but partially blocked.
	1. The future of the Aboriginal people is doubtful.
	1. Although the situation looks good, in reality it is hopeless.

4. [X] __Consider each of the choices separately and select all that apply.__ According to the passage, which of the following is a cause of the current dispute between the Aborigines and the Australian government?
	1. [O] economic hardships in certain regions of the country
	1. [O] the influx of European value systems
	1. [O] limited natural resources in most of Australia

**Music education** in America emerged in the early eighteenth century out of a desire to ensure that church goers could sing the weekly hymns in tune. In 1721, **John Tufts**, a minister, penned the first textbook for musical education entitled An Introduction to the Singing of Psalm Tunes. Tufts's pedagogical technique **relied primarily on *rote* learning, omitting the reading of music** until a student's singing abilities had improved.

In the same year that Tufts's publication emerged, **Reverend Thomas Walter** published The Ground Rules of Music Explained, which, while also focusing on preparing students to sing religious music, **took a note-based approach by teaching students the rudiments of note reading from the onset.** The "note versus rote" controversy in music education continued well into the mid-nineteenth century. With no curriculum to guide them, singing school teachers focused on either the rote or note method with little consistency.

5. The author discusses Tufts's pedagogical technique in order to
	1. suggest that rote learning is superior to note learning
	1. present a contrast with Walter's educational technique
	1. argue that rote learning improves a student's singing ability
	1. show the origin of Walter's educational techniques
	1. show that rote learning was inconsistently practiced

6. Select the sentence in the passage that best describes the endurance of the tension between pedagogical techniques.
	- The "note versus rote" controversy in music education continued well into the mid-nineteenth century

The **nineteenth century marked a revolutionary change** in the way that **wealth was perceived** in England. As landed wealth gave way to *monied wealth*, **investments became increasingly speculative**.

A popular investment vehicle was the three-percent *consol* which took its name from the fact that it paid three pounds on a hundred pound investment. **The drawback to the consol was that once issued, there was no easy way for the government to buy back the debt. To address the problem,** the British government instituted a sinking fund, using tax revenue to buy back the bonds in the open market. The fact that the consol had no fixed maturity date ensured that any change in interest rate was fully reflected in the capital value of the bond. The often wild fluctuation of interest rates ensured the consol's popularity with speculative traders.

7. Which of the following best describes the relationship of the first paragraph of the passage to the passage as a whole?
	1. [O] It provides a generalization which is later supported in the passage.
	1. It provides an **antithesis** to the author's main argument.
	1. It briefly **compares** two different investment strategies.
	1. It **explains** an investment vehicle that is later examined in greater detail.
	1. It provides a historical framework by which the nature of the nineteenth century investor can more easily be understood.

8. In the second paragraph, select the sentence that describes a solution to a problem. 
	- To address the problem, the British government instituted a sinking fund, using tax revenue to buy back the bonds in the open market.

Often the most **influential developments initially appear to be of minor significance**. Consider the development of the basic stirrup for example. Without stirrups horse and rider are, in terms of force, separate entities; lances can be used from horseback, but only by throwing or stabbing, and mounted warriors gain only height and mobility. In medieval times, a lance couched under the rider’s arm, unifying the force of rider and weapon, would **throw its wielder backwards off the horse at impact**. Stirrups unify lance, rider, and horse into a force capable of unprecedented violence. **This development left unusually clear archaeological markers**: With lethality assured, lances evolved barbs meant to slow progress after impact, lest the weight of body pull rider from horse. The change presaged the dominance of mounted combat, and increasingly expensive equipment destroyed the venerable ideal of freeman warriors. New technology demanded military aristocracy, and chivalric culture bore its marks for a millennium.

9. The primary purpose of the passage is to
	1. discuss the influence of a recent archeological discovery
	1. [O] explore the social significance of a technological innovation
	1. assess the state of research in a given field
	1. lament the destruction of certain social ideals
	1. explicate the physics of combat *artillery*

10. It can be inferred from the passage that the author believes which of the following about medieval innovations in military technology?
	1. Their study merits additional research.
	1. They had more lasting influence than did those of the ancient world.
	1. Most of them had equally far-reaching repercussions.
	1. Prior to their application, the military value of horses was considered insignificant.
	1. [O] Many of them are archaeologically ambiguous.

11. Click on the sentence in the passage in which the author cites the physical effects of a technological innovation being discussed **as an example of a previous generalization.**
	- Stirrups unify lance, rider, and horse into a force capable of **unprecedented** violence.

Few mathematical constructs seem as conceptually simple as that of **randomness**. According to the traditional definition, a number is random if it is chosen purely as the result of a probabilistic mechanism such as the roll of a fair die. **In their groundbreaking work** regarding complexity and the limitations of formal systems, mathematicians **Gregory Chaitin and A.N. Kolmogorov force us to consider this last claim more closely.**

Consider two possible outcomes of throwing a fair die three times: first, 1, 6, and 2; second 3, 3, and 3. Now let us construct two three-member sets based on the results. Though the first set-{1,6,2}-intuitively seems more random than the second-{3,3,3}, they are each as likely to occur, and thus according to the accepted definition, must be considered equally random. **This unwelcome result prompts Chaitin and Kolmogorov to suggest the need for a new standard of randomness, one that relies on the internal coherence of the set** as opposed to its origin.

12. Which of the following best describes the organization of the passage as whole?
	1. A concept is introduced; a traditional definition is **put forward**; a thought experiment is described; a new definition is proposed; the traditional definition is amended as a result.
	2. A concept is introduced; a **traditional definition is supported** by authorities; a thought experiment is described; the implications of the experiment are discussed.
	3. A concept is introduced; a traditional definition is considered and rejected; a thought experiment is described; a **new definition** is proposed.
	4. [O] A concept is introduced; a traditional definition is called into question; a thought experiment is described; the implications of the experiment are discussed.
	5. A concept is introduced; authorities are called in to reevaluate a definition; a thought experiment is described; the implications of the experiment are **considered and rejected.**

13. __Consider each of the choices separately and select all that apply.__ Which of the following is an inference made in the passage above?
	1. [O] The results of the same probabilistic mechanism will each be as likely as the other to occur.
	1. [O] According to the traditional definition of randomness, two numbers should be considered equally random if they result from the same probabilistic mechanism.
	1. Different probabilistic mechanisms are likely to result in similar outcomes.

Echinosorex gymnura, known colloquially as the moon rat or gymnure, is **one of the many fascinating creatures that inhabit the jungles of Southeast Asia.** A close relative of the *hedgehog*, the moon rat likewise belongs to the order Insectivora and the family Erinaceidae. **However, the family then splits into the sub-family** Hylomyinae, which contains three separate genera and eight distinct species. **The appearance and habitat of the moon rat are actually far more similar** to those of various members of the order Rodentia, though its eating habits are more in line with its fellow insectivores. **Ultimately, the taxonomic classification of this animal is useful only when considered along with other information regarding the animal's ecological niche.**

14. __Consider each of the choices separately and select all that apply.__ Which of the following scenarios demonstrates the idea put forth by the author of this passage regarding animal classification?
	1. While studying a population of bears, scientists rely solely on the traditional taxonomic designations to identify likely hunting grounds.
	1. [O] A team of medical researchers closely monitors the actions of the animals involved in a study and compares its findings with prevailing beliefs about those animals.
	1. A zookeeper designs a habitat for a new acquisition disregards taxonomic classifications and instead focuses on observational data.

15. The author's tone could best be described as
	1. exasperated
	1. didactic
	1. ambivalent
	1. morose
	1. laudatory

16. Click on the sentence that most directly exemplifies the rationale behind the author's conclusion.
	- The appearance and habitat of the moon rat are actually far more similar to those of various members of the order Rodentia, though its eating habits are more in line with its fellow insectivores

One of the most curious structures in cellular biology is the telomere, a length of repeated bases located at the end of every chromosome that, unlike the rest of the DNA strand, carries no useful genetic information. While the telomere seems on the surface to be nothing more than a useless afterthought of DNA, a closer look proves that it is not only important, but also crucial to the functioning of any organism. Indeed, without this mundane structure, every cell division would be a step into senescence, and the onset of old age would begin at birth.

Scientists have found that during cell division not every base of the DNA strand can be replicated, and many, especially those near the end, are lost. If, instead of telomeres, our chromosomes stored valuable genetic information at the end of the DNA strand, then cell division would cause our cells to lose the ability to code for certain information. In fact, many ailments associated with normal old age begin only after the telomere buffer has been exhausted through years of cell division.

17. The passage suggests that if telomere buffers did not exist
Aproblems associated with aging would begin earlier in life
Bpeople would age so rapidly that almost no one would live past childhood
Ccellular senescence would probably be prevented by DNA bases
Dchromosomes would lose the ability to store genetic codes
EDNA strands would contain only useful genetic information

18. The passage suggests that if telomere buffers did not exist
Aproblems associated with aging would begin earlier in life
Bpeople would age so rapidly that almost no one would live past childhood
Ccellular senescence would probably be prevented by DNA bases
Dchromosomes would lose the ability to store genetic codes
EDNA strands would contain only useful genetic information

That *axon* malfunction plays a role in neurological disorders has never been in question by neurobiologists, but the nature of the relationship has been a matter of speculation. Enter George Bartzokis. Bartzokis's neurological research at UCLA suggests that many previously **little understood disorders such as Alzheimer's disease may be explained by examining the role of the chemical compound *myelin*.**

Myelin is produced by oligodendrocyte cells as a protective sheathing for axons within the nervous system. As humans mature and their neurochemistries grow more complex, oligodendrocyte cells produce increasing amounts of myelin to protect the byzantine *circuitry* inside our nervous systems. An apt comparison may be to the plastic insulation around copper wires. Bereft of myelin, certain areas of the brain may be left vulnerable to short circuiting, resulting in such disorders as *ADHD*, *schizophrenia*, or autism.

19. __Consider each of the choices separately and select all that apply.__ It can be inferred from the passage that the author would be most likely to agree with which of the following statements regarding the role of myelin?
	1. The levels of myelin in the brain can contribute to the neurological health of individuals.
	1. Increasing the levels of myelin in the brain can reverse the effects of neurological damage.
	1. The levels of myelin in the brain are not fixed throughout the lifetime of an individual.

20. In the context in which it appears, __byzantine__ most nearly means
	1. devious
	1. intricate
	1. mature
	1. beautiful
	1. electronic

Among the more interesting elements of etymology is the attempt to **derive the meaning of seemingly nonsensical expressions**. Take, for instance, the increasingly archaic rural phrase "to buy a pig in a *poke*." For centuries, the expression has been used to signify the purchase of an item without full knowledge of its condition, and it relates to the common Renaissance practice of securing *suckling* pigs for transport to market in a poke, or *drawstring* bag. Unscrupulous sellers would sometimes attempt to dupe purchasers by replacing the suckling pig with a cat, considered worthless at market. An unsuspecting or naive buyer might fail to confirm the bag's contents; a more __urbane__ buyer, though, would be sure to check and-should the seller be dishonest-"let the cat out of the bag."

21. __Consider each of the choices separately and select all that apply.__ Which of the following phrases from the passage would help the reader infer the meaning of the word urbane as used in context?
	1. "increasingly archaic rural phrase"
	1. "without full knowledge"
	1. [O] "unsuspecting or naïve buyer"

22. Select a sentence in which the author **makes deliberate use of a seemingly nonsensical expression.**
	- An unsuspecting or naive buyer might fail to confirm the bag's contents; a more urbane buyer, though, would be sure to check and-should the seller be dishonest-"let the cat out of the bag

In 1887, Eugene Dubois began his search in Sumatra for the "missing link"-the being that would fill the evolutionary gap between ape and man. He discovered a fossilized human-like *thighbone* and a section of skull. He confirmed that these fossils were of significant age, based on other fossils in the same area. The thighbone's shape indicated that it belonged to a creature that walked upright. Dubois estimated the size of the creature's skull from the skull fragment and concluded that this creature's brain volume was between that of the higher primates and that of current humans. **Although the concept of "missing link" has changed dramatically** and a **recent dating showed Dubois's fossils to be far too recent** for humans to have evolved from this "missing link," the value of his discovery and the debate it generated is unquestionable.

23. __Consider each of the choices separately and select all that apply.__ The passage supplies information to answer which of the following questions?
	1. What was the approximate age of the fossils found by Dubois?
	1. [O] Does Dubois's find meet current definitions of the "missing link?"
	1. [O] Do the flaws in Dubois's conclusions invalidate his work?

24. Select a sentence in which the **author** reaches a conclusion.
	- Although the concept of "missing link" has changed dramatically and a recent dating showed Dubois's fossils to be far too recent for humans to have evolved from this "missing link," the value of his discovery and the debate it generated is unquestionable

## Vocab
- stave (n)木柱, 桶的側板, 棍/棒, 詩節/詩句 = verse (v)[in]擊穿, [off]避開/延緩(危險) = avert = delay
- rote (n)死記硬背
- monied, moneyed (adj)富裕的 = affluent
- consol (n)(英國)統一國債
- stirrup (n)馬鐙, 鐙骨 = stirrup bone
- artillery (n)火砲/大砲, 砲術
- hedgehog (n)刺蝟, 豪豬 = porcupine
- axon (n)(神經細胞之)軸索
- myelin (n)髓燐脂
- circuitry (n)電路系統
- attention deficit hyperactivity disorder == ADHD (n)專注力失調及過度活躍症
- schizophrenia (n)精神分裂症
- suckling (n)(未斷奶的)乳獸/幼獸
- poke (v)戳/撥弄 = jab = prod, 伸出來/探出來 = thrust (n)戳/撥, [a poke round/around]掃視, 寬前沿女帽 = poke bonnet, [非]錢包, (植物)垂序商陸
- drawstring (n)帶/細繩
- thighbone (n)大腿骨