[You have no idea where camels really come from](https://www.ted.com/talks/latif_nasser_you_have_no_idea_where_camels_really_come_from/transcript?referrer=playlist-surprisingly_fun_ted_talks)

So, this is a story about how we know what we know. 

It's a story about this woman, Natalia Rybczynski. She's a **paleobiologist**, which means she specializes in digging up **really** old dead **stuff**. 
	- paleobiology /ˌpeɪlioʊbaɪˈɑlədʒi/ 古生物學 --> paleobiologist

(Audio) Natalia Rybczynski: Yeah, I had someone call me "Dr. Dead Things." 

Latif Nasser: And I think she's particularly interesting because of where she digs that stuff up, way above the Arctic Circle in the remote Canadian **tundra**. 
	- tundra /ˈtʌndrə/  苔原/凍土地帶

Now, one summer day in 2006, she was at a dig site called *the Fyles Leaf Bed*, which is less than 10 degrees latitude away from the magnetic north pole. 

(Audio) NR: Really, it's not going to sound very exciting, because it was a day of walking with your backpack and your GPS and notebook and just picking up anything that might be a fossil. 

LN: And at some point, she noticed something. 

(Audio) NR: Rusty, kind of rust-colored, about the size of the palm of my hand. It was just lying on the surface. 

LN: And at first she thought it was just a splinter of wood, because that's the sort of thing people had found at the Fyles Leaf Bed before -- prehistoric plant parts. But that night, back at camp ... 

(Audio) NR: ... I get out the hand lens, I'm looking a little bit more closely and realizing it doesn't quite look like this has tree rings. Maybe it's a preservation thing, but it looks really like ... bone. 

LN: Huh. So over the next four years, she went to that spot over and over, and eventually collected 30 fragments of that exact same bone, most of them really tiny. 

(Audio) NR: It's not a whole lot. It fits in a small **Ziploc** bag. 
	- Ziploc bag 保鮮袋 (Ziploc是一種可重複使用，可重複密封的拉鍊儲存袋和容器品牌)

LN: And she tried to piece them together like a **jigsaw puzzle**. But it was challenging. 
	- jigsaw puzzle 拼圖

(Audio) NR: It's broken up into so many little tiny pieces, I'm trying to use sand and **putty**, and it's not looking good. So finally, we used a 3D surface scanner. 
	- putty
		> 油灰 |A soft, malleable greyish-yellow paste, made from ground chalk and raw linseed oil, that hardens after a few hours and is used for sealing glass in window frames and filling holes in wood.| countersink the screws so they can be covered with putty
		> |Any of a number of similar malleable substances used inside and outside buildings, e.g. plumber's putty, lime putty, or used for modelling or casting, e.g. epoxy putty.|
		> 氧化錫/擦光粉 |A polishing powder, usually made from tin oxide, used in jewellery work.| Polishing on a brush wheel with putty powder retained the crispness and grain marks of the stone wheels.
		> 用油灰填塞或接合 |Seal or cover (something) with putty.| give me a minute until I putty these windows in

LN: Ooh!

NR: Yeah, right? 

LN: It turns out it was way easier to do it virtually. 

(Audio) NR: It's kind of magical when it all fits together. 

LN: How certain were you that you had it right, that you had put it together in the right way? Was there a potential that you'd put it together a different way and have, like, a **parakeet** or something? 
	- parakeet, parrakeet /ˈparəkiːt/ 長尾小鸚鵡 == A small parrot with predominantly green plumage and a long tail.

(Audio) NR: (Laughs) Um, no. No, we got this. 

LN: What she had, she discovered, was a **tibia**, a leg bone, and specifically, one that belonged to a **cloven-hoofed** mammal, so something like a cow or a **sheep**. But it couldn't have been either of those. It was just too big. 
	- tibia /ˈtɪbɪə/ 脛骨
	- cloven 偶蹄的/一分為二的 == Split or divided in two.
	- cleave -> cleaved/cleft/clove -> cleaved/cleft/cloven
		> 劈開 |Split or sever (something), especially along a natural line or grain.| the large axe his father used to cleave wood for the fire
		> 使(原子)分離 |Split (a molecule) by breaking a particular chemical bond.|
		> 細胞分裂|(of a cell) divide.| the egg cleaves to form a mulberry-shaped cluster of cells
		> 穿過／鑽進 |Make a way through (something) forcefully, as if by splitting it apart.| they watched a coot cleave the smooth water
		> 黏著/黏住 |Stick fast to.| Rose's mouth was dry, her tongue cleaving to the roof of her mouth
		> 堅信/忠於 |Adhere strongly to (a particular pursuit or belief)| part of why we cleave to sports is that excellence is so measurable
		> 黏著 |Become very strongly involved with or emotionally attached to (someone)| it was his choice to cleave to the Brownings
	- hoof /huːf/ 
		> 蹄 |The horny part of the foot of an ungulate animal, especially a horse.| there was a clatter of hoofs as a rider came up to them
		> 踢 |Kick (a ball) powerfully.| he hoofed the ball 70 metres
		> 步行 |Go on foot.| I paid the check and hoofed it over to Jane Street
		> 跳舞 |Dance.| we hoof it reasonably fancily, and no one guffaws
	- sheep
		> 綿羊 |A domesticated ruminant mammal with a thick woolly coat and (typically only in the male) curving horns. It is kept in flocks for its wool or meat, and is proverbial for its tendency to follow others in the flock.|
		> 羊 |A wild mammal related to this, such as the argali, bighorn, bharal, and urial.|
		> 懦怯之人 |Used with reference to people who are too easily influenced or led.| party members should not follow their leader like sheep
		> 信徒 |A person regarded as a protected follower of God.|
		> 教區居民 |A member of a minister's congregation.| Wouldn't it be wonderful if you, as the shepherd of your class, could develop a whole team of shepherds to reach out to many of the drifting sheep in your congregation?

(Audio) NR: The size of this thing, it was huge. It's a really big animal. 

LN: So what animal could it be? Having hit a wall, she showed one of the fragments to some colleagues of hers in Colorado, and they had an idea. 
	- hit a wall 遭遇極點 == to reach a point when you are running, exercising, playing sports, etc. where you are so physically tired you feel you cannot continue
		> Many marathon runners hit the wall at around 20 miles.

(Audio) NR: We took a **saw**, and we **nicked** just the edge of it, and there was this really interesting smell that comes from it. 
	- saw -> sawed -> sawed/sawn
		> 鋸子/鋸條 |A hand tool for cutting wood or other hard materials, typically with a long, thin serrated blade and operated using a backwards and forwards movement.|
		> 電鋸 |A mechanical power-driven tool for cutting which has a toothed rotating disc or moving band.|
		> 鋸齒狀部 |A serrated organ or part, such as the toothed snout of a sawfish.|
		> 鋸 |Cut (something) using a saw.| the top of each post is sawn off at railing height
		> 用鋸子做成 |Make or form (something) using a saw.| the seats are sawn from well-seasoned elm planks
		> 不整齊地切 |Cut (something) as if with a saw, especially roughly or so as to leave rough or unfinished edges.| the woman who sawed off all my lovely hair
		> 拉 |Make rapid sawlike motions in cutting, or in playing a stringed instrument.| he was sawing away energetically at the loaf
		> 格言/諺語 |A proverb or maxim.|
	- nick
		> 槽口/刻痕 |A small cut or notch.| a small nick on his wrist
		> 警局 |A police station.| he was being fingerprinted in the nick
		> |The junction between the floor and side walls in a squash court or real tennis court.|
		> 割破/在…上刻出凹痕 |Make a nick or nicks in.| he had nicked himself while shaving
		> nick sb for 敲詐 |Cheat someone of (a sum of money)| banks will be nicked for an extra $40 million

LN: It smelled kind of like **singed** flesh. It was a smell that Natalia recognized from cutting up skulls in her **gross anatomy lab**: **collagen**. Collagen is what gives structure to our bones. And usually, after so many years, it breaks down. But in this case, the Arctic had acted like a natural freezer and preserved it. 
	- signed /sɪn(d)ʒd/ 輕微燒焦的 == Slightly burnt; scorched.
	+ collagen /ˈkɒlədʒ(ə)n/ 膠原蛋白 <-- colla = glue + gen

Then a year or two later, Natalia was at a conference in **Bristol**, and she saw that a colleague of hers named Mike Buckley was demoing this new process that he called "collagen fingerprinting." It turns out that different species have slightly different structures of collagen, so if you get a collagen profile of an unknown bone, you can compare it to those of known species, and, who knows, maybe you get a match. 
	- Bristol 布里斯托爾，英國英格蘭西南區域的名譽郡、單一管理區、城市

So she shipped him one of the fragments, FedEx. 

(Audio) NR: Yeah, you want to track it. It's kind of important. 

LN: And he processed it, and compared it to 37 known and modern-day mammal species. And he found a match. It turns out that the 3.5 million-year-old bone that Natalia had dug out of the High Arctic belonged to ... a camel. 

(Audio) NR: And I'm thinking, what? That's amazing -- if it's true. 

LN: So they tested a bunch of the fragments, and they got the same result for each one. However, based on the size of the bone that they found, it meant that this camel was 30 percent larger than modern-day camels. So this camel would have been about nine feet tall, weighed around a **ton**. 

Yeah. Natalia had found a Giant Arctic camel. 

Now, when you hear the word "camel," what may come to mind is one of these, the **Bactrian** camel of East and Central Asia. But chances are the *postcard* image you have in your brain is one of these, the **dromedary**, quintessential desert creature -- hangs out in sandy, hot places like the Middle East and the Sahara, has a big old **hump** on its back for storing water for those long desert **treks**, has big, broad feet to help it **tromp** over sand **dunes**. So how on earth would one of these guys end up in the High Arctic? 
	- Bactrian（adj)巴克特里亞的/巴克特里亞人的 (n)雙峰駱駝, 巴克特里亞/巴克特里亞人(中亞古地名，古希臘人在此地建立希臘-巴克特里亞王國，中國史籍稱之為大夏，此地一說為吐火羅)
	- bactrian camel 雙峰駱駝
	- dromedary /ˈdrɒmɪd(ə)ri/ 單峰駱駝
	- hump
		> 小圓丘/小丘 |A rounded raised mass of earth or land.| they sat on a hump of cropped grass
		> |A mound over which railway vehicles are pushed so as to run by gravity over points to the required place in a marshalling yard.|
		> 駝峰/駝背 |A rounded protuberance found on the back of a camel or other animal or as an abnormality on the back of a person.| his back rose into a kind of hump at the base of the spine
		> 弓起 |Make hump-shaped.| he turned and humped his body to avoid a rope
	- trek /trɛk/ <--> track /trak/ 
		> 長途而辛苦的旅行 |A long arduous journey, especially one made on foot.| a trek to the South Pole
		> 艱苦跋涉 |Go on a long arduous journey, typically on foot.| we trekked through the jungle
	- tromp 腳步沉重地行走 == Walk heavily; trudge.
		> she tromped across the yard
	- tromp on 踐踏 == Tread or stamp on.
		> Larry took a step forward and tromped on his wrist
	- dune /djuːn/ 沙丘 == A mound or ridge of sand or other loose sediment formed by the wind, especially on the sea coast or in a desert.

Well, scientists have known for a long time, turns out, even before Natalia's discovery, that camels are actually originally American. 

They started here. For nearly **40 of the 45 million years** that camels have been around, you could only find them in North America, around 20 different species, maybe more. 

(Audio) LN: If I put them all in a **lineup**, would they look different? 
	- lineup
		> 陣容 |A group of people or things brought together in a particular context, especially the members of a sports team or a group of musicians or other entertainers.| a talented batting lineup
		> 電視節目時間表 |The schedule of television programs for a particular period.| NBC's Thursday lineup of hit comedies
		> 列隊 |A line of people or things| Marvel at the line-up of shabby kids in a line across the old Syke on Fellside, where smoke billows across the rooftops and cats prowl the cobbles.
		> |A group of people including a suspect for a crime assembled for the purpose of having an eyewitness identify the suspect from among them.|

NR: Yeah, you're going to have different body sizes. You'll have some with really long necks, so they're actually functionally like **giraffes**. 
	- giraffe /dʒɪˈrɑːf/  長頸鹿

LN: Some had **snouts**, like crocodiles. 
	- snout /snaʊt/ 
		> 口鼻部 |The projecting nose and mouth of an animal, especially a mammal.| a sea lion balanced a ball on its snout
		> 鼻子 |A person's nose.| a guard with a pair of vicious piggy eyes above a snarling snout
		> |The projecting front or end of something such as a pistol.| he was stopped by the snout of her pistol
		> 菸草 |Tobacco.|
		> 螟蛾 |snout moth|

(Audio) NR: The really primitive, early ones would have been really small, almost like rabbits. 

LN: What? Rabbit-sized camels? 

(Audio) NR: The earliest ones. So those ones you probably would not recognize. 

LN: Oh my God, I want a pet rabbit-camel. 

(Audio) NR: I know, wouldn't that be great? 

LN: And then about three to seven million years ago, one branch of camels went down to South America, where they became **llamas** and **alpacas**, and another branch crossed over *the Bering Land Bridge* into Asia and Africa. And then around the end of the last ice age, North American camels went extinct. 
	- llama /ˈlɑːmə/ 大羊駝
	- alpaca /alˈpakə/ 羊駝
	- the Bering Land Bridge 白令陸橋，位於白令海，伸延至極限時長達1600公里。白令陸橋連接現今的美國阿拉斯加西岸和俄羅斯西伯利亞東岸 在冰河時期，白令海的水面降低，白令海峽成為一個白令海陸橋。

So, scientists knew all of that already, but it still doesn't fully explain how Natalia found one so far north. Like, this is, temperature-wise, the polar opposite of the Sahara. Now to be fair, three and a half million years ago, it was on average 22 degrees **Celsius** warmer than it is now. So it would have been **boreal** forest, so more like the **Yukon** or Siberia today. But still, like, they would have six-month-long winters where the ponds would freeze over. You'd have blizzards. You'd have 24 hours a day of straight darkness. Like, how ... How? How is it that one of these Saharan superstars could ever have survived those arctic conditions? 
	- Celsius /ˈsɛlsɪəs/ 
	- boreal forest 北方針葉林
	- Yukon 育空地區，加拿大三個地區/領地之一，位於加拿大的西北方。1898年6月13日，育空正式加入加拿大聯邦

Natalia and her colleagues think they have an answer. And it's kind of brilliant. What if the very features that we imagine make the camel so well-suited to places like the Sahara, actually evolved to help it get through the winter? What if those broad feet were meant to **tromp** not over sand, but over snow, like **a pair of** snowshoes? What if that hump -- which, huge news to me, does not contain water, it contains fat -- 

was there to help the camel get through that six-month-long winter, when food was **scarce**? And then, only later, long after it crossed over the land bridge did it **retrofit** those winter features for a hot desert environment? Like, for instance, the hump may be helpful to camels in hotter **climes** because having all your fat in one place, like a, you know, fat backpack, means that you don't have to have that **insulation** all over the rest of your body. So it helps heat **dissipate** easier. It's this crazy idea, that what seems like proof of the camel's quintessential desert nature could actually be proof of its High Arctic past. 
	- scarce /skɛːs/ <--> scare
		> 不足夠的/缺乏的 |(especially of food, money, or some other resource) insufficient for the demand.| as raw materials became scarce, synthetics were developed
		> 稀少的 |Occurring in small numbers or quantities; rare.| the freshwater shrimp becomes scarce in soft water
	- retrofit /ˈrɛtrəʊfɪt/ <-- retroactive + refit.
		> 加入..以翻新 |Add (a component or accessory) to something that did not have it when manufactured.| motorists who retrofit catalysts to older cars
		>  對……作翻新改進 |Provide (something) with a component or accessory not fitted during manufacture.| buses have been retrofitted with easy-access features
		> 加裝 |An act of retrofitting a component or accessory.| uninsulated and oddly designed dream houses that are badly in need of a retrofit
		> 加裝物 |A component or accessory added to something after manufacture.| the system is available as a retrofit for all makes of sprayer
	- clime /klʌɪm/ 氣候區 == A region considered with reference to its climate.
	- insulation
		> 隔絕 |The action of insulating something.| keep your home warmer through insulation
		> 隔絕狀態 |The state of being insulated.| his comparative insulation from the world
		> 隔熱材質/絕緣材質 |Material used to insulate something.| fit insulation to all exposed pipes
	- dissipate
		> 消失/使消失 |(with reference to a feeling or emotion) disappear or cause to disappear.| the concern she'd felt for him had wholly dissipated
		> 散開 |Disperse or scatter.| the cloud of smoke dissipated
		> 揮霍 |Waste or fritter away (money, energy, or resources)| he inherited, but then dissipated, his father's fortune

Now, I'm not the first person to tell this story. Others have told it as a way to marvel at evolutionary biology or as a keyhole into the future of climate change. But I love it for a totally different reason. For me, it's a story about us, about how we see the world and about how that changes. 

So I was trained as a historian. And I've learned that, actually, a lot of scientists are historians, too. They make sense of the past. They tell the history of our universe, of our planet, of life on this planet. And as a historian, you start with an idea in your mind of how the story goes. 

(Audio) NR: We make up stories and we stick with it, like the camel in the desert, right? That's a great story! It's totally adapted for that. Clearly, it always lived there. 

LN: But at any moment, you could uncover some tiny bit of evidence. You could learn some tiny thing that forces you to **reframe** everything you thought you knew. Like, in this case, this one scientist finds this one shard of what she thought was wood, and because of that, science has a totally new and totally counterintuitive theory about why this absurd `Dr. Seuss`-looking creature looks the way it does. And for me, it completely **upended** the way I think of the camel. It went from being this ridiculously **niche** creature suited only to this one specific environment, to being this world traveler that just happens to be in the Sahara, and could end up virtually anywhere. 
	- upend 倒置 == Set or turn (something) on its end or upside down.
	+ niche /nɪtʃ/
		> 壁龕 |A shallow recess, especially one in a wall to display a statue or other ornament.|
		> 把..放入壁龕 |Place (something) in a niche.| these elements were niched within the shadowy reaches
		> 合適的職務 |A comfortable or suitable position in life or employment.| he is now head chef at a leading law firm and feels he has found his niche
		> 利基 |A specialized segment of the market for a particular kind of product or service.|
		> 特定的 |Denoting or relating to products, services, or interests that appeal to a small, specialized section of the population.| other companies in this space had to adapt to being niche players

This is Azuri. Azuri, hi, how are you doing? OK, here, I've got one of these for you here. 

So Azuri is on a break from her regular **gig** at the Radio City Music Hall. 
	- gig /ɡɪɡ/
		> 二輪單馬車 |A light two-wheeled carriage pulled by one horse.|
		> 小艇 |A light, fast, narrow boat adapted for rowing or sailing.| The new gig should be out of the builders by April next year, giving plenty of time to think of a name.
		> 演奏/公演 |A live performance by a musician or group playing popular or jazz music.|
		> 演奏/公演 |Perform a gig or gigs.| two or three nights a week we were gigging
		> 用..演奏 |Use (a piece of musical equipment) at a gig.| 12-string guitar, mint condition, never gigged
		> 暫時的工作 |A job, especially one that is temporary or that has an uncertain future.| working on the sea and spotting whales seemed like a great gig
		> 魚叉 |A device similar to a harpoon, used for catching fish.|
		> 用魚叉捕魚 |Fish using a gig.|
		> |gigabyte| ver 9 gigs of programs for the PC

That's not even a joke. Anyway -- 

But really, Azuri is here as a living reminder that the story of our world is a dynamic one. It requires our willingness to readjust, to reimagine. 

Right, Azuri? 

And, really, that we're all just one **shard** of bone away from seeing the world **anew**. 
	- anew (ADV)
		> 重新 |In a new or different and typically more positive way.| her career had begun anew, with a lucrative Japanese modelling contract
		> 再一次 |Once more; again.| tears filled her eyes anew

Thank you very much. 