[Why you should make useless things](https://www.ted.com/talks/simone_giertz_why_you_should_make_useless_things?referrer=playlist-surprisingly_fun_ted_talks&language=en)

Hello. My name is Simone. You know how people tell you if you get nervous when onstage, *picture* people in the audience naked? Like it's this thing that's supposed to make you feel better. But I was thinking -- picturing all of you naked in 2018 feels kind of weird and wrong. Like, we're working really hard on moving past stuff like that, so we need a new method of dealing with if you get nervous onstage. And I realized that what I'd really like is that I can look at you as much as you're looking at me -- just to even things out a little bit. So if I had way more eyeballs, then we'd all be really comfortable, right? So in preparation for this talk, I made myself a shirt. 
	- picture
		> 畫/畫像 |A painting or drawing.| draw a picture of a tree
		> 照片 |A photograph.| we were warned not to take pictures
		> 肖像 |A portrait.| she had her picture painted
		> 畫面 |An image on a television screen.| television pictures of captured airmen
		> 影片 |A cinema film.| the movie took five honours including best picture
		> the pictures 劇院 |The cinema.| I'm going to the pictures with my mates
		> 畫/拍攝 |Represent in a photograph or picture.| he is pictured with party guests
		> 描繪/描述 |Describe in a certain way.| biographers have pictured him as a St Francis
		> 形象/想像 |An impression of something formed from a description.| a full picture of the disaster had not yet emerged
		> 想像 |Form a mental image of.| she pictured Benjamin waiting
	? just to even things out a little bit 這樣才公平吧
	+ even (sth) out 公平/使相等 == to become equal, or to make something equal
		> The league is divided into two skill levels in order to even out the competition.

It's **googly** eyes. It took me 14 hours and 227 googly eyes to make this shirt. And being able to look at you as much as you're looking at me is actually only half of the reason I made this. The other half is being able to do this. 
	- googly
		> (眼球)不專心的/轉動的 |(of the eyes) unfocused or rolling.| her eyes were googly for a second, but when they focused she started swinging
		> 曲球 |An off break bowled with an apparent leg-break action.| you are going to bowl some amazing googlies

So I do a lot of things like this. I see a problem and I invent some sort of solution to it. For example, brushing your teeth. Like, it's this thing we all have to do, it's kind of boring, and nobody really likes it. If there were any seven-year-olds in the audience, they'd be like, "Yes!" So what about if you had a machine that could do it for you? 

I call it ... I call it "The Toothbrush Helmet." 

So my toothbrush helmet is recommended by zero out of 10 **dentists**, and it definitely did not revolutionize the world of **dentistry**, but it did completely change my life. Because I finished making this toothbrush helmet three years ago and after I finished making it, I went into my living room and I put up a camera, and I filmed a seven-second clip of it working. And by now, this is a pretty standard modern-day fairy tale of girl posting on the internet, the internet takes the girl by storm, thousands of men **voyage** into the comment sections to ask for her hand in marriage -- 
	- dentist /ˈdɛntɪst/ 
	- dentistry /ˈdɛntɪstri/ 牙醫學
	- voyage /ˈvɔɪɪdʒ/ 
		> 航海/航空 |A long journey involving travel by sea or in space.| his voyage to America
		> 航行 |Go on a voyage.| he spent part of his life voyaging along the South African coast

She ignores all of them, starts a YouTube channel and keeps on building robots. Since then, I've **carved** out this little **niche** for myself on the internet as an inventor of useless machines, because as we all know, the easiest way to be at the top of your **field** is to choose a very small field. 
	+ carve out 用技巧獲取 == to create or obtain something that helps you by skillful activities
		> She carved out a reputation for herself as a high-powered lawyer.
	+ niche /nɪtʃ/
		> 壁龕 |A shallow recess, especially one in a wall to display a statue or other ornament.|
		> |Place (something) in a niche.| these elements were niched within the shadowy reaches
		> 合適的職務 |A comfortable or suitable position in life or employment.| he is now head chef at a leading law firm and feels he has found his niche
		> 利基 |A specialized segment of the market for a particular kind of product or service.|
		> 特定的 |Denoting or relating to products, services, or interests that appeal to a small, specialized section of the population.| other companies in this space had to adapt to being niche players
	+ field /fiːld/ 
		> 田地/牧場 |An area of open land, especially one planted with crops or pasture, typically bounded by hedges or fences.| a wheat field
		> 運動場/場地 |A piece of land used for a particular purpose, especially an area marked out for a game or sport.| a football field
		> 外野手 |A fielder.| Michael Mclouhglin was the best right field.
		> 原 |A large area of land or water completely covered in a particular substance, especially snow or ice.| an ice field
		> 礦區/井田 |An area rich in a natural product, typically oil or gas.| a gas field
		> the field 研究地區 |A place where a subject of scientific study or of artistic representation can be observed in its natural location or context.| Getting out in the field over and over is the best way to build up knowledge
		> 戰場 |An area which is or is to become the scene of a battle or campaign.| a field of battle
		> 領域/專業 |A particular branch of study or sphere of activity or interest.| we talked to professionals in various fields
		> 資料紀錄 |A part of a record, representing an item of data.|
		> 觀察範圍 |A space or range within which objects are visible from a particular viewpoint or through a piece of apparatus.|
		> 全部參賽選手 |All the participants in a contest or sport.| he destroyed the rest of the field with a devastating injection of speed
		> 域 |An area on a flag with a single background colour.| fifty white stars on a blue field
		> 場/域 |The region in which a particular condition prevails, especially one in which a force or influence is effective regardless of the presence or absence of a material medium.|
		> 場 |The force exerted or potentially exerted in a field.| the variation in the strength of the field
		> 截/守(球) |Attempt to catch or stop the ball and return it after it has been hit by the batsman or batter, thereby preventing runs being scored or base runners advancing.|
		> 截/守(球) |Catch or stop (the ball) and return it.| his swinging bunt was fielded by the Chicago catcher
		> 派……上場比賽 |Send out (a team or individual) to play in a game.| Leeds fielded a team of youngsters
		> 派……參選 |(of a political party) put up (a candidate) to stand in an election.| the Ecology party fielded 109 candidates
		> 部署 |Deploy (an army)| Russia was committed to fielding 800,000 men
		> 巧妙地回答/處理 |Deal with (a difficult question, telephone call, etc.).|
		> 田野的/實地的 |Carried out or working in the natural environment, rather than in a laboratory or office.| field observations and interviews
		> 輕量可移動的 |(of military equipment) light and mobile for use on campaign.| field artillery
		> 田的/野外的 |Used in names of animals or plants found in the open country, rather than among buildings or as cultivated varieties, e.g.: field mouse.|
		> |Denoting a game played outdoors on a marked field.|

So I run a YouTube channel about my machines, and I've done things like cutting hair with drones -- 

To a machine that helps me wake up in the morning -- 

To this machine that helps me chop vegetables. 

I'm not an engineer. I did not study engineering in school. But I was a super ambitious student growing up. In middle school and high school, I had *straight A's*, and I graduated at the top of my year. On the flip side of that, I struggled with very severe performance anxiety. Here's an email I sent to my brother around that time. "You won't understand how difficult it is for me to tell you, to confess this. I'm so freaking embarrassed. I don't want people to think that I'm stupid. Now I'm starting to cry too. Damn." And no, I did not accidentally burn our parents' house down. The thing I'm writing about in the email and the thing I'm so **upset** about is that I got a B on a math test. 
	- straight-A == getting the best results in all examinations
		> She had always been a straight-A student until she met him.
	- upset 
	- on the flip side of

So something obviously happened between here and here. 

One of those things was **puberty**. 
	- puberty /ˈpjuːbəti/ 青春期 == The period during which adolescents reach sexual maturity and become capable of reproduction.
		> the onset of puberty

Beautiful time indeed. But moreover, I got interested in building robots, and I wanted to teach myself about hardware. But building things with hardware, especially if you're teaching yourself, is something that's really difficult to do. It has a high *likelihood* of failure and moreover, it has a high likelihood of making you feel stupid. And that was my biggest fear at the time. So I came up with a setup that would guarantee success 100 percent of the time. With my setup, it would be nearly impossible to fail. And that was that instead of trying to succeed, I was going to try to build things that would fail. And even though I didn't realize it at the time, building stupid things was actually quite smart, because as I kept on learning about hardware, for the first time in my life, I did not have to deal with my performance anxiety. And as soon as I removed all pressure and expectations from myself, that pressure quickly got replaced by enthusiasm, and it allowed me to just play. 
	- likelihood /ˈlʌɪklɪhʊd/ 可能性 == The state or fact of something's being likely; probability.

So as an inventor, I'm interested in things that people struggle with. It can be small things or big things or medium-sized things and something like giving a TED talk presents this whole new set of problems that I can solve. And identifying a problem is the first step in my process of building a useless machine. So before I came here, I sat down and I thought of some of the potential problems I might have in giving this talk. Forgetting what to say. That people won't laugh -- that's you. Or even worse, that you'll laugh at the wrong things -- that was an OK part to laugh at, thank you. 

Or that when I get nervous, my hands start shaking and I'm really self-conscious about it. Or that my *fly* has been open this entire time and all of you noticed but I didn't, but it's closed so we're all good on that one. 
	+ fly
		> 飛 |(of a bird, bat, or insect) move through the air using wings.| close the door or the moths will fly in
		> 乘飛機旅行 |(of an aircraft or its occupants) travel through the air.| I fly back to London this evening
		> 駕駛 |Control the flight of (an aircraft)| he flew Hurricanes in the war
		> 空運 |Transport in an aircraft.| helicopters flew the injured to hospital
		> |Move or be hurled quickly through the air.| balls kept flying over her hedge
		> 飛走 |(of accusations or insults) be exchanged swiftly and heatedly.| the accusations flew thick and fast
		> 飛傳 |(of a report) be circulated swiftly and widely.| rumours were flying around Manchester
		> 擊飛 |Hit a ball high into the air.| he flied out to the left field
		> 飄揚/飛舞 |Wave or flutter in the wind.| she ran after him, her hair flying behind her
		> 飛跑/飛奔 |Go or move quickly.| she flew along the path
		> 趕緊離開 |Depart hastily.| I must fly!
		> 飛逝 |of time) pass swiftly.| the evening had just flown by
		> 成功 |Be successful.| that idea didn't fly with most other council members
		> 前襠開口 |the opening at the front of a pair of trousers| Hey Chris, your fly's undone!
		> 篷頂 |an extra sheet of canvas (= strong cloth) stretched over the outside of a tent to keep the rain out|
		> 蠅 |A flying insect of a large order characterized by a single pair of transparent wings and sucking (and often also piercing) mouthparts. Flies are of great importance as vectors of disease.|
		> 瘟 |An infestation of flying insects on a plant or animal.| cattle to be treated for warble fly
		> 迷人的 |Fashionably attractive and impressive.| a fly dude

But one thing I'm actually really nervous about is my hands shaking. I remember when I was a kid, giving presentations in school, I would have my notes on a piece of paper, and I would put a notebook behind the paper so that people wouldn't be able to see the paper **quivering**. And I give a lot of talks. I know that about half of you in the audience are probably like, "Building useless machines is really fun, but how is this in any way or form a business?" And giving talks is a part of it. And the arrangers always put out a glass of water for you onstage so you have something to drink if you get thirsty, and I always so badly want to drink that water, but I don't dare to pick the glass up because then people might be able to see that my hands are shaking. So what about a machine that hands you a glass of water? Sold to the nervous girl in the googly-eye shirt. 
	- quiver /ˈkwɪvə/ 
		> 顫抖 |Tremble or shake with a slight rapid motion.| the tree's branches stopped quivering
		> 使顫動 |Cause (something) to make a slight rapid motion.| the bird runs along in a zigzag path, quivering its wings
		> 箭袋/箭筒 |An archer's portable case for holding arrows.|
		> |A set of surfboards of different lengths and shapes for use with different types of waves.| he had created a whole new quiver of boards specifically for Hawaii

Actually, I need to take this off because I have a thing -- 

Oh. 

I still don't know what to call this, but I think some sort of "head orbit device," because it rotates this platform around you and you can put anything on it. You can have a camera; you can get photos of your entire head. Like it's really -- it's a very **versatile** machine. 
	- versatile /ˈvəːsətʌɪl/ 多功能的/多方面適用的 == Able to adapt or be adapted to many different functions or activities.
		> a versatile sewing machine

OK, and I have -- I mean, you can put some snacks on it, for example, if you want to. I have some popcorn here. And you just put a little bit like that. And then you want to -- there's some sacrifices for science -- just some popcorn falling on the floor. Let's do the long way around. 

And then you have a little hand. You need to adjust the **height** of it, and you just do it by **shrugging**. 
	- height /hʌɪt/ <--> heat /hiːt/ 
	+ shrug
		> 聳肩 |Raise (one's shoulders) slightly and momentarily to express doubt, ignorance, or indifference.| Jimmy looked enquiringly at Pete, who shrugged his shoulders
		> 聳肩 |An act or instance of shrugging one's shoulders.| she lifted her shoulders in a dismissive shrug
		> 女短套衫/女帶袖短披肩 |A woman's close-fitting cardigan or jacket, cut short at the front and back so that only the arms and shoulders are covered.|
	- shrug sth off 不重視/忽視 == Dismiss something as unimportant.
		> the managing director shrugged off the criticism

It has a little hand. 

I just **bumped** my mic off, but I think we're all good. OK, also I need to chew this popcorn, so if you guys could just clap your hands a little bit more -- 
	- bump
		> 碰撞/顛簸 |A light blow or a jolting collision.| a nasty bump on the head
		> 碰撞/顛簸 |Knock or run into someone or something with a jolt.| I almost bumped into him
		> 碰傷/撞傷 |Hurt or damage (something) by striking it on something else.| she bumped her head on the sink
		> 顛簸著行進 |Move or travel with much jolting.| the car bumped along the rutted track
		> 凸塊 |A protuberance on a level surface.| bumps in the road
		> 腫塊 |A swelling on the skin, especially one caused by illness or injury.| her mosquito bites had come up in huge red bumps
		> 增加 |An increase.| there was a bump in the number of outbound flights
		> 置頂 |(in an online forum) an act of posting on an inactive thread in order to move it to the top of the list of active threads.| I'm giving this thread a well-deserved bump
		> 置頂 |(in an online forum) post on (an inactive thread) in order to move it to the top of the list of active threads.| if no one responds after 24 hours, you can bump your thread
		> |A loosely woven fleeced cotton fabric used in upholstery and as lining material.|
		> 推 |Push (something) jerkily in a specified direction.| she had to bump the pushchair down the steps
		> 拒絕登機 |Refuse (a passenger) a reserved place on a flight because of deliberate overbooking by the airline.| if you check in on time and are bumped, you will be entitled to a full refund
		> 頂替 |Displace from a job or role, especially in favour of someone else.| she was bumped for a youthful model
	- bump into 巧遇 == Meet by chance.
		> we might just bump into each other

OK, so it's like your own little personal solar system, because I'm a **millennial**, so I want everything to revolve around me. 
	- millennial /mɪˈlɛnɪəl/ 

Back to the glass of water, that's what we're here for. So, I promise -- I mean, it still has -- it doesn't have any water in it, I'm sorry. But I still need to work on this machine a little bit because I still need to pick up the glass and put it on the platform, but if your hands are shaking a little bit, nobody's going to notice because you're wearing a very **mesmerizing** piece of equipment. 
	- mesmerizing 吸引人的/迷人的 == Capturing one's complete attention as if by magic.

Oh no, it got stuck. Isn't it comforting that even robots sometimes get stage **fright**? It just gets stuck a little bit. It's very human of them. Oh wait, let's go back a little bit, and then -- 
	- fright /frʌɪt/ 
		> 驚嚇/恐怖 |A sudden intense feeling of fear.| I jumped up in fright
		> 恐怖的經驗 |An experience that causes one to feel sudden intense fear.| she's had a nasty fright

Isn't it a beautiful time to be **alive**? 

So as much as my machines can seem like simple engineering **slapstick**, I realize that I stumbled on something bigger than that. It's this expression of joy and humility that often gets lost in engineering, and for me it was a way to learn about hardware without having my performance **anxiety** get in the way. I often get asked if I think I'm ever going to build something useful, and maybe someday I will. But the way I see it, I already have because I've built myself this job and it's something that I could never have planned for, or that I could -- 
	- slapstick
		> 低俗的鬧劇 |Comedy based on deliberately clumsy actions and humorously embarrassing events.|
		> |A device consisting of two flexible pieces of wood joined together at one end, used by clowns and in pantomime to produce a loud slapping noise.| a loud and exhilarating rattle of bladders and slapsticks’
	- anxiety /aŋˈzʌɪəti/ 

It's something that I could never have planned for. Instead it happened just because I was **enthusiastic** about what I was doing, and I was sharing that **enthusiasm** with other people. To me that's the true beauty of making useless things, because it's this acknowledgment that you don't always know what the best answer is. And it turns off that voice in your head that tells you that you know exactly how the world works. And maybe a toothbrush helmet isn't the answer, but at least you're asking the question.
	- enthusiastic /ɪnˌθjuːzɪˈastɪk/ --> enthusiasm /ɪnˈθjuːzɪaz(ə)m/