[What sticky sea creatures can teach us about making glue](https://www.ted.com/talks/jonathan_wilker_what_sticky_sea_creatures_can_teach_us_about_making_glue/transcript?referrer=playlist-surprisingly_fun_ted_talks&language=en)

So I'd like you to join me on a **field trip**, and I want to go to the beach, and take you all to the beach and so enjoy the sea air and the **salt spray**. And let's go down to the water's edge, and you're going to notice is we're getting knocked around by the waves, and it's really difficult to stay in place. But now, look down, and what you're going to see is that the rocks are covered by all sorts of sea creatures that are just staying there in place, no problem. And it turns out that if you want to survive in this really **demanding** environment, your very existence is dependent upon your ability to make glue, actually. 
	- field trip 實地考察
	- spray /spreɪ/ 
		> 水花 |Liquid that is blown or driven through the air in the form of tiny drops.| a torrent of white foam and spray
		> 噴霧 |A liquid preparation which can be forced out of a can or other container in tiny drops.|
		> 噴霧器 |A can or container holding a spray.|
		> 噴灑 |An act of spraying something.| refresh your flowers with a quick spray
		> 噴抹 |Apply (liquid) to someone or something in the form of tiny drops.| the product can be sprayed on to wet or dry hair
		> 噴灑 |Sprinkle or cover with tiny drops of liquid.| she sprayed herself with perfume
		> 濺散 |(of liquid) be driven through the air or forced out of something in tiny drops.| water sprayed into the air
		> 散 |Scatter (something) somewhere with great force.| the truck shuddered to a halt, spraying gravel from under its wheels
		> 掃射 |Fire a rapid succession of bullets at.| enemy gunners sprayed the decks of the warships
		> (公貓)噴尿 |(of a male cat) direct a stream of urine over (an object or area) to mark a territory.| ‘cats usually spray areas they have sprayed before
		> 亂丟/亂踢 |(in sport) kick, hit, or throw (the ball) in an unpredictable way.| he began his round by spraying his fairway shots
		> 小樹枝 |A stem or small branch of a tree or plant, bearing flowers and foliage.| a spray of honeysuckle
		> 花束 |A bunch of cut flowers arranged in an attractive way.| a spray of yellow chrysanthemums and red roses
		> |A brooch in the form of a bouquet of flowers.| a diamond and emerald spray brooch
	- demanding
		> 艱難的 |(of a task) requiring much skill or effort.| she has a busy and demanding job
		> 不易滿足的 |(of a person) making others work hard or meet high standards; not easily satisfied.| he was a demanding baby, and rarely slept through the night

So let me introduce you to some of the heroes of our story, just a few of them. So these are **mussels**, and you'll notice they're covering the rocks. They've made **adhesives**, and they're sticking down on the rocks, and they're also sticking to each other, actually. So they're **hunkered** down together as a group. 
	- mussel /ˈmʌs(ə)l/ 貽貝 <--> muscle /ˈmʌs(ə)l/ 
	- adhesive /ədˈhiːsɪv/ 
		> 黏著的/有黏性的 |Able to stick fast to a surface or object; sticky.| an adhesive label
		> 黏著劑 |A substance used for sticking objects or materials together; glue.|
	- hunker
		> 蹲下 |Squat or crouch down low.| he hunkered down beside her
		> 彎腰 |Bend the top of one's body forward; hunch| she hunkered over the heater
	- hunker down == Apply oneself seriously to a task.
		> 蹲著/蹲坐 |to sit down on your heels| We hunkered down around the campfire, toasting marshmallows.
		> 蹲守/準備長期逗留在某處 |to make yourself comfortable in a place or situation, or to prepare to stay in a place or position for a long time, usually in order to achieve something or for protection| The press have hunkered down for the night outside the palace, waiting for news of the royal birth.

This is a *close-up* photograph of an oyster **reef**, and oysters, they're amazing. What they do is they **cement** to each other, and they build these huge, extensive reef systems. They can be kilometers long, they can be meters deep, and arguably, they're the most dominant influence on how healthy any coastal **marine** ecosystem is going to be, because what they do is they're filtering the water constantly, they're holding sand and dirt in place. Actually, other species live inside of these reefs. And then, if you think about what happens when a storm comes in, if the storm **surge** first has to hit miles of these reefs, the coast behind it is going to be protected. So they're really quite influential. 
	- close-up 特寫照片/近景照片 == She took a stunning close-up of him.
	- reef /riːf/ 
		> 礁 |A ridge of jagged rock, coral, or sand just above or below the surface of the sea.|
		> 礁脈 |A vein of ore in the earth, especially one containing gold.|
		> 縮帆部/疊帆部 |Each of the several strips across a sail which can be taken in or rolled up to reduce the area exposed to the wind.| We had to sail her with ‘two reefs in’, a reduced sail area for the rough conditions.
		> 疊捲/收帆 |Take in one or more reefs of (a sail)| reef the mainsail in strong winds
		> 縮桅 |Shorten (a topmast or a bowsprit).| Even if the sails were incomplete, couldn't they have been reefed down, rip-stopped, patched, or sewed?
	- cement /sɪˈmɛnt/ 
		> 水泥 |A powdery substance made by calcining lime and clay, mixed with water to form mortar or mixed with sand, gravel, and water to make concrete.|
		> 讓人們團結的要素 |A factor or element that unites a group of people.|
		> 黏固粉/白堊 |A substance for filling cavities in teeth.| dental cement
		> |A thin layer of bony material that fixes teeth to the jaw.|
		> 用水泥接合 |Fix with cement.| wooden posts were cemented into the ground
		> 鞏固/加強 |Settle or establish firmly.| the two firms are expected to cement an agreement soon
	- marine /məˈriːn/ 
	- surge /səːdʒ/ 
		> 高漲 |A sudden powerful forward or upward movement, especially by a crowd or by a natural force such as the tide.| flooding caused by tidal surges
		> 蜂擁而至 |(of a crowd or a natural force) move suddenly and powerfully forward or upward.| the journalists surged forward
		> 激增 |A sudden large increase, typically a temporary one.| the firm predicted a 20% surge in sales
		> 激增 |Increase suddenly and powerfully.| shares surged to a record high
		> 增兵 |A major deployment of military forces to reinforce those already in a particular area.|
		> 澎湃 |A powerful rush of an emotion or feeling.| Sophie felt a surge of anger
		> 洶湧/澎湃 |(of an emotion or feeling) affect someone powerfully and suddenly.| indignation surged up within her
		> 浪湧 |A sudden marked increase in voltage or current in an electric circuit.|
		> 浪湧 |(of an electric voltage or current) increase suddenly.|
		> |(of a rope, chain, or windlass) slip back with a jerk.|

If you've been to any rocky beach pretty much anywhere in the world, you're probably familiar with what **barnacles** look like. What these animals do -- and there's many others, these are just three of them -- is they make adhesives, they stick to each other, they stick to the rocks and they build communities, and by doing this, there's a lot of survival advantages they get. So one of them is that just any individual is **subjected** to less of the turbulence and all the damaging features that can happen from that environment. So they're all **hunkered down** there. 
	- barnacle /ˈbɑːnək(ə)l/ 藤壺

Then, also, there's a safety in numbers thing, because it also helps you keep away the predators, because if, say, a **seagull** wants to pick you up and eat you, it's more difficult for the seagull if they're all stuck together. 
	- seagull 海鷗

And then another thing is it also helps with **reproductive** efficiency. So you can imagine that when Mr. and Mrs. Barnacle decide, "OK, it's time to have little baby barnacles" -- I won't tell you how they do that just yet -- but when they decide it's time to do that, it's a lot easier and their reproductive efficiency is higher if they're all living close together. 
	- reproductive /ˌriːprəˈdʌktɪv/ 
	+ efficiency /ɪˈfɪʃ(ə)nsi/ 

So we want to understand how they do this, how do they stick, and I can't really tell you all the details, because it's something we're still trying to figure out, but let me give you a little flavor of some of the things that we're trying to do. 

This is a picture of one of the **aquarium** systems we have in our lab, and everything in the image is part of the system, and so what we do is we keep -- and you can see in the glass tank there in the bottom, there's a bunch of mussels, we have the water **chilled**, we have the lights cycled, we actually have turbulence in the system because the animals make more **adhesives** for us when the water is turbulent. So we **induce** them to make the adhesive, we collect it, we study it. They're here in Indiana. As far as they know, they're in **Maine** in February, and they seem to be pretty happy, as far as we can tell. 
	- aquarium /əˈkwɛːrɪəm/ 
	+ induce /ɪnˈdjuːs/ 
		> 引誘/成功勸說 |Succeed in persuading or leading (someone) to do something.| the pickets induced many workers to stay away
		> 引起/導致 |Bring about or give rise to.| none of these measures induced a change of policyw
		> 感電/感生 |Produce (an electric charge or current or a magnetic state) by induction.| the current in the primary winding is induced by the rotating magnet
		> 用人工方法催生 |Bring on (the birth of a baby) artificially, typically by the use of drugs.| induced labour
		> 歸納出 |Derive by inductive reasoning.|
	- Maine /meɪn/ 緬因州，美國東北部新英格蘭的一個州，北鄰加拿大魁北克省，東鄰加拿大新不倫瑞克省以及大西洋

And then we also work with oysters, and up top, it's a photo of a small reef in South Carolina, and what we're most interested in is seeing how they attach to each other, how they connect. And so what you can see in the bottom image is there's two oysters that are cementing to each other. And we want to know what's in between, and so a lot of times, we'll cut them and look down, and in the next series of images we have here, you can see, on the bottom, we'll have two shells, the shell of one animal and the shell of another animal, and the cement's in between. And if you look at the image on the right, what you can maybe see is that there's structure in the shell of each animal, but then, the cement actually looks different. And so we're using all sorts of **fancy** biology and **chemistry** tools to understand what's going on in there, and what we're finding is the structures are different and the chemistry is actually different, and it's quite interesting. 
	- fancy /ˈfansi/ 
	- chemistry /ˈkɛmɪstri/ 

And then this picture -- I guess let me step back before I tell you what this is. So do you know the cartoon "The Magic School Bus"? Or if you're a little bit older, "Fantastic Voyage," right? And you remember, they had these characters that they would shrink down to these **microscopic** levels, and then they would sort of **swirl** in and swim around and fly around all these biological structures? I think of this as like that, except for it's real, in this case. And so what we did is we have two oysters that are stuck together, and this area used to be completely filled in with the cement, and what we're finding is that the cement has lots of different components in there, but broadly speaking, there are hard, non-sticky parts and there are soft, sticky parts, and what we did is we removed the non-sticky parts selectively to see what's left for what's actually attaching the animals, and what we got is this, and we can see there's this sticky adhesive that's holding them together. And I just think it's a really cool image, because you can imagine yourself flying in and going back there. 
	? they had these characters that they would shrink down to these **microscopic** levels, and then they would sort of **swirl** in and swim around and fly around all these biological structures? 這些卡通會把裡面的角色縮成微粒般 然後在一番天旋地轉之後或游或飛，探索這些生物構造
	- microscopic /mʌɪkrəˈskɒpɪk/ 
	- swirl /swəːl/ 
		> 打旋/旋轉 |Move in a twisting or spiralling pattern.| the smoke was swirling around him
		> 使打旋 |Cause to move in a twisting or spiralling pattern.| swirl a little cream into the soup
		> 漩渦/漩渦狀物 |A quantity of something moving in a twisting or spiralling pattern.| swirls of dust swept across the floor
		> 打旋/旋轉 |A twisting or spiralling movement or pattern.| she emerged with a swirl of skirts

Anyways, those are some of the things we're doing to understand how **marine** biology is making these materials. And from a fundamental perspective, it's really exciting to learn. But what we do want to do with this information? Well, there's a lot of technological applications if we can **harness** what the animals are doing. 
	- harness /ˈhɑːnəs/ 
		> 馬具/挽具 |A set of straps and fittings by which a horse or other draught animal is fastened to a cart, plough, etc. and is controlled by its driver.|
		> 降落傘背帶/保險帶/安全帶 |An arrangement of straps for fastening something such as a parachute to a person's body or for restraining a young child.|
		> 給……上挽具 |Put a harness on| how to groom a horse and harness it
		> 控制/利用 |Control and make use of (natural resources), especially to produce energy.| attempts to harness solar energy

So let me give you one example. So imagine you're at home and you break your favorite **figurine** or a **mug** or something like that? You want to put it back together. So where do you go? You go to my favorite place in town, which is the glue **aisle** of the hardware store. I know where you spend your nights, because you're all **hip**, cool people, because you're here, and you're going to the bars and concerts -- this is where I hang out every night. So anyways, so what I want you to do is get one of every **adhesive** that's **on the shelf**, bring it home, but before you try to put things back together, I want you to try to do it in a bucket of water. It's not going to work, right? We all know this. So obviously, marine biology has solved this, so what we need to do is figure out ways to be able to copy this ourselves. And one of the issues here is, you can't just go and get the materials from the beach, because if you get a bunch of mussels and try to **milk** them for their adhesive, you'll get a little bit of material, but you're never going to have enough to do anything with, just enough to see. We need to scale this up, ideally maybe train car scale. 
	- figurine /ˈfɪɡəriːn/ 小雕像 == A statuette, especially one of a human form.
	- mug /mʌɡ/ 
		> 馬克杯 |A large cup, typically cylindrical with a handle and used without a saucer.| she picked up her coffee mug
		> 一杯 |The contents of a mug.| I drank a mug of tea
		> 臉 |A person's face.| I don't want to see Barry's ugly mug when I get home
		> 流氓 |A hoodlum or thug.|
		> 行搶 |Attack and rob (someone) in a public place.| he was mugged by three men who stole his bike
		> 做鬼臉 |Make faces, especially silly or exaggerated ones, before an audience or a camera.| he mugged for the camera
	- hip
		> 臀部 |A projection of the pelvis and upper thigh bone on each side of the body in human beings and quadrupeds.|
		> 髖部 |The circumference of the body at the buttocks.| I have big hips and thighs
		> 髖關節 |A person's hip joint.| she dislocated her hip
		> 屋脊 |The sharp edge of a roof from the ridge to the eaves where the two sides meet.| hip tiles
		> 野薔薇的果實 |The fruit of a rose, especially a wild kind.| the hips and haws in the hedges
		> 時髦的 |Very fashionable.| it's hip to be environmentally conscious
		> 通曉的/熟悉內情的 |Aware of or informed about.| he's trying to show how hip he is to Americana

So on the top is an image of one of the types of **molecules** that the animals are using to make their glue, and what they are is they're very long molecules, they're called proteins, and these proteins happen to have some fairly unique parts in them that bring about the adhesive properties. What we want to do is take those little parts of that chemistry, and we want to put it into other long molecules that we can get but things that we can make on a really large scale, so you might know them as plastics or **polymers**, and so we're sort of simplifying what they do, but then putting that adhesion chemistry into these large molecules. 
	- molecule /ˈmɒlɪkjuːl/ 
	* polymer /ˈpɒlɪmə/ 聚合物

And we've developed many different adhesive systems in doing this, and when you make a new adhesive that looks pretty good, what do you do? You start running around the lab, just sticking stuff together. We took a tiny bit of a glue and glued together two pieces of metal and we wanted to hang something from it, so we used a pot of live mussels and thought we were very clever. 

We're obviously much more **quantitative** about this most often, and so we benchmark against commercial adhesives, and we actually have some materials now that are stronger than **superglue**. So to me, that's really cool. That's a good day in the lab. It's stronger than superglue. 
	- quantitative 量的/量化的 /ˈkwɒntɪtətɪv/ == Relating to, measuring, or measured by the quantity of something rather than its quality.

And here's something else that we can do. So this is a tank of **seawater**, and then, in that **syringe** is one of our adhesive formulations, and what we're doing is we're dispensing it completely underwater, on a piece of metal. And then, we want to make an adhesive bond, or joint, and so we take another piece of metal and we put it on there and just position it. And you want to let it set up for a while, give it a chance, so we'll just put a weight on it, nothing fancy. This is a tube with lead shot in it, nothing fancy. And then you let it sit for a while. So this has never seen air. It's completely underwater. And you pick it up. I never know what's going to happen. I'm always very **anxious** here. Pick it up ... and it's stuck. 
	- seawater 海水 == Water in or taken from the sea.
	- syringe /sɪˈrɪn(d)ʒ/
		> 注射器 |A tube with a nozzle and piston or bulb for sucking in and ejecting liquid in a thin stream, used for cleaning wounds or body cavities, or fitted with a hollow needle for injecting or withdrawing fluids.|
		> |A device similar to a syringe used in gardening or cooking.|
		> 注射/洗淨 |Clean (the ear, a wound, etc.) by spraying liquid from a syringe.| I had my ears syringed
		> 噴灑 |Spray liquid over (plants) with a syringe.| syringe the leaves frequently during warm weather
	? This is a tube with lead shot in it 這就是個含鉛的管子
	- anxious /ˈaŋ(k)ʃəs/ 
		> 焦慮的/掛念的 |Feeling or showing worry, nervousness, or unease about something with an uncertain outcome.| she was extremely anxious about her exams
		> 令人焦慮的 |(of a situation or period of time) causing or characterized by worry or nervousness.| there were some anxious moments
		> 渴望的 |Very eager or concerned to do something or for something to happen.| the company was anxious to avoid any trouble

To me, this is really cool. So we can actually get very strong underwater adhesion. Possibly, it's the strongest or at least one of the strongest underwater adhesives that's ever been seen. It's even stronger than the materials that the animals produce, so for us, it's pretty exciting. It's pretty cool. 

So what do we want to do with these things? Well, here are some products that you're probably really familiar with. So think about your cell phone, your laptop, **plywood** in most structures, the interior of your car, shoes, phone books, things like this. They're all held together with adhesives, and there's two main problems with the adhesives used in these materials. The first one is that they're **toxic**. So the worst **offender** here is plywood. Plywood, or a lot of furniture, or wood **laminate** in floors -- a main component of the adhesives here is **formaldehyde**, and it's maybe a compound you've heard of. It's a gas, and it's also a **carcinogen**, and so we're constructing a lot of structures from these adhesives, and we're also breathing a lot of this carcinogen. So not good, obviously. Right? The other issue is that these adhesives are all permanent. And so what do you do with your shoes or your car or even your laptop at the end of life, when you're done using it? For the most part, they end up in **landfills**. And there's a lot of precious materials in there we'd love to be able to get out and recycle them. We can't do it so easily because they're all stuck together permanently. 
	- plywood /ˈplʌɪwʊd/ 夾板/膠合板
	- toxic /ˈtɒksɪk/ 
	- offender
		> 違法者 |A person who commits an illegal act.| an institution for young offenders
		> 有問題的人或物 |A person or thing that does something wrong or causes problems.| you can't get away from sex these days, and the TV is the worst offender
	- laminate /ˈlamɪneɪt/ 
		> 給…覆蓋保護膜 |Overlay (a flat surface) with a layer of plastic or some other protective material.| the book had a shiny laminated cover
		> 把..層層接合 |Manufacture (something) by bonding layers of material together.| windows fitted with laminated glass
		> 把……分成薄片 |Split into layers or leaves.| the laminated sediments of the eastern Pacific
		> 把……製成薄板 |Beat or roll (metal) into thin plates.|
		> |Prepare (pastry) using a method of repeatedly folding layers of butter between thin layers of dough and rolling it out.| he set to laminating dough for croissants
		> 層壓材料 |A laminated structure or material.| the blade is suitable for cutting plastics or laminates
		> |A small badge made of laminated plastic bearing the wearer's name.| my face and laminate were checked by the security man
		> 薄板的/薄層的 |In the form of a lamina or laminae.|
	- formaldehyde /fɔːˈmaldɪhʌɪd/ 甲醛
	- carcinogen /kɑːˈsɪnədʒ(ə)n/ 
	- landfill
		> 垃圾掩埋 |The disposal of waste material by burying it, especially as a method of filling in and reclaiming excavated pits.| landfill sites
		> 廢棄材料 |Waste material used in landfill sites.| our reusable packaging eliminates tons of landfill
		> 垃圾掩埋場 |An area filled in by landfill.| landfills will take up valuable space
		> 掩埋 |Bury in a landfill.| many tons of edible food are landfilled

So here's one approach we're taking to try and solve some of these problems, and what we've done here is we've taken another long molecule that we can actually get from corn, and then into that molecule, we've put some of the adhesion chemistry from the mussels. So because we've got the corn and we've got the mussels, we call this our **surf-and-turf polymer**. And it sticks. It sticks really well. It's very strong. It's also *bio-based*. That's nice. But maybe more importantly, here, it's also degradable, and we can degrade it under very **mild** conditions, with water. And so what we can do is we can set things up and we can bond them strongly when we want, but then we can also take them apart. It's something we're thinking about. 
	- surf-and-turf == surf 'n' turf 海陸雙拼 == a main course combining seafood and red meat.

And here is a place where a lot of us want to be. Well, actually, in this specific case, this is a place we do not want to be, but we'd like to replace this. So **sutures**, staples, **screws**: this is how we put you back together if you've had some surgery or an injury. It's just awful. It hurts. In the case of the sutures, look at how much you're making concentrated, mechanical stresses as you pull things together. You're making sites for infection. Poke holes in healthy tissue. It's not so good. 
	- suture /ˈsuːtʃə/ 
		> 縫線 |A stitch or row of stitches holding together the edges of a wound or surgical incision.| sutures are removed on the 5th to 7th day after the operation
		> 縫合用的線 |A thread or wire used for suturing a wound or incision.|
		> 縫合 |The action of stitching together the edges of a wound or incision.|
		> 縫合 |Stitch up (a wound or incision) with a suture.| the small incision was sutured
		> 不會動的關節 |An immovable junction between two bones, such as those of the skull.|
		> |A junction between the sclerites of an insect's body.|
		> |A line of junction formed by two crustal plates which have collided|
	+ screw
		> 螺絲 |A short, slender, sharp-pointed metal pin with a raised helical thread running round it and a slotted head, used to join things together by being rotated so that it pierces wood or other material and is held tightly in place.|
		> 螺栓 |A cylinder with a helical ridge or thread running round the outside (a male screw) that can be turned to seal an opening, apply pressure, adjust position, etc., especially one fitting into a corresponding internally grooved or threaded piece (a female screw).|
		> 用螺絲固定 |Fasten or tighten with a screw or screws.| screw the hinge to your new door
		> 旋/擰 |Rotate (something) so as to fit it into or on to a surface or object by means of a spiral thread.| Philip screwed the top on the flask
		> 被螺絲固定 |(of an object) be attached or removed by being rotated by means of a spiral thread.| ‘a connector which screws on to the gas cylinder
		> 螺旋槳 |A ship's or aircraft's propeller (considered as acting like a screw in moving through water or air).|
		> 轉/擰 |An act of turning a screw or other object having a thread.|
		> 監獄看守人 |A prisoner's derogatory term for a warder.| she was frightened by the look of the screws
		> 發生性關係 |An act of sexual intercourse.|
		> 性伴侶 |A sexual partner of a specified ability.|
		> 與..發生性關係 |Have sexual intercourse with.|
		> 敲詐 |Cheat or swindle (someone), especially by charging them too much for something.| the loss of advertising contracts will amount to more than the few quid that they're trying to screw us for
		> 身處嚴重的問題/有麻煩 |Be in serious trouble.| if you're colour-blind, you're screwed
		> |Used to express anger or contempt.| I saw red and thought, ‘Screw you!’
		> |Impart spin or curl to (a ball or shot)| Collins had a late chance to equalize but screwed his shot wide
	- screw sth around/round 轉頭/轉身 == Turn one's head or body round sharply
		> he screwed his head round to try to find the enemy
	- screw sth out of 逼...交出/向...勒索 == Extort or force something, especially money, from (someone) by putting them under strong pressure.
		> your grandmother screwed cash out of him for ten years
	? You're making sites for infection. 你還會製造感染的溫床

Or if you need a **plate** to hold together your bones, look at how much healthy bone you have to **drill out** just to hold the plate in place. So this is awful. To me, it looks like these were things devised in a **medieval** torture chamber, but it's our modern surgical **joinery**. So I'd love it if we could replace systems like these with adhesives. We're working on this, but this is not easy. 
	? how much healthy bone you have to drill out just to hold the plate in place. 看看你得鑽多少健康的骨頭 只為了把板子固定住？ 
	- medieval /ˌmɛdɪˈiːv(ə)l/ 
	- joinery /ˈdʒɔɪnəri/ 
		> 木工製品 |The wooden components of a building, such as stairs, doors, and door and window frames, viewed collectively.| the timber is in demand for furniture and interior joinery
		> 細木工業 |The activity or skill of a joiner.| he quickly mastered the techniques of joinery

So think about what you would need for adhesives in these cases. So first of all, you would need an adhesive that is going to set in a wet environment. And if you look at the silly little picture there, it's just to illustrate that our bodies are about 60 percent water, so it's a wet environment. It's also to illustrate that this is why I am a scientist and not an artist. I did not miss my calling at all. 
	? I did not miss my calling at all.  我完全沒有選錯職業 
	- miss one's calling == to not have the career one should have
		> He feels he missed his calling by not becoming a doctor.

So then the other requirements you need for a good biomedical adhesive: it needs to bond strongly, of course, and it needs to not be toxic. You don't want to hurt the patients. And getting any two of those requirements in a material is pretty easy. It's been done many times. But getting all three hasn't been done. It's very hard. And if you start talking to surgeons, they get **picky** -- "Oh, actually I want the adhesive to set on the same time frame as the surgery." Or, "Oh, I want the adhesive to degrade so the patient's tissues can **remodel** the site." 
	- picky 挑剔的 == choosy == demanding == exacting == fastidious == finicky == fussy
	? I want the adhesive to set on the same time frame as the surgery. 我想要黏著劑在手術時乾

So this is really hard. We're working on it. This is just one image we have. So what we're doing is we're getting all sorts of bones and skin and soft and hard tissue, and sometimes we'll **whack** it with a hammer. Usually, we're cutting it in precise shapes. And then we glue them back together. 
	- whack /wak/ 
		> 重打/猛擊 |Strike forcefully with a sharp blow.| his attacker whacked him on the head
		> 擊敗 |Defeat in a contest.| the team were whacked six-nil
		> 亂推 |Put or push (something) roughly or carelessly in a specified place or direction.| he whacks a tape into the cassette recorder
		> 謀殺 |Murder.| he was whacked while sitting in his car
		> 重擊聲 |A sharp or resounding blow.| with a few whacks and some loud whistles, they drove the animals away
		> 嘗試/機會 |A try or attempt.| we decided to take a whack at spotting the decade's trends
		> 大量 |A large quantity or amount.|

We've got some exciting results, some strong materials, some things that look like they're not toxic, they set wet, but I'm not going to tell you we've solved the wet adhesion problem, because we haven't, but it's certainly in our sights for the future. So that's one place that we'd like to see things go farther down the road. And there are a lot of other places, too, you can imagine we might be better off if we could get more adhesives in there. Even **cosmetics**. So if you think about people putting on **fake nails** or **eyelash extensions**, what do they use? They use very toxic adhesives right now. So it's just **ripe** for replacement. That's something we'd like to do. 
	+ cosmetic /kɒzˈmɛtɪk/ 
		> 整容的 |Relating to treatment intended to restore or improve a person's appearance.| cosmetic surgery
		> 化妝用的 |Serving to improve the appearance of the body, especially the face.| cosmetic creams
		> 裝飾性的/表面的 |Affecting only the appearance of something rather than its substance.| the reform package was merely a cosmetic exercise
		> 化妝品 |A preparation applied to the body, especially the face, to improve its appearance.| the range covers everything from the latest cosmetics to skin and hair care
	- fake nail 假指甲
	- eyelash extension 接睫毛
	- ripe
		> 成熟的 |(of fruit or grain) developed to the point of readiness for harvesting and eating.| a ripe tomato
		> 熟成的 |(of a cheese or wine) fully matured.| a ripe Brie
		> 醇美的 |(of a smell or flavour) rich, intense, or pungent.| rich, ripe flavours emanate from this wine
		> 時機成熟的 |Having arrived at the fitting stage or time for a particular action or purpose)| land ripe for development
		> 老成的 |(of a person's age) advanced.| she lived to a ripe old age
		> 可以產卵的 |(of a female fish or insect) ready to lay eggs or spawn.| ripe females will stop and spawn with one or more males
		> 粗俗的 |(of a person's language) beyond the bounds of propriety; coarse.| I think my language may have been a little ripe outside the church
	- ripe with 充滿 == full of 
		> a population ripe with discontent

And then there are other places too. So think about cars and planes. The lighter you can make them, the more fuel-efficient they're going to be. And so if we can get away from **rivets** and get away from **welding** and put more adhesives in there, then we might be better off with our future generation of transportation. 
	- rivet /ˈrɪvɪt/ 
	- weld /wɛld/ 
		> 焊接/熔接 |Join together (metal parts) by heating the surfaces to the point of melting with a blowpipe, electric arc, or other means, and uniting them by pressing, hammering, etc.| steel plates were being welded
		> 焊接 |Forge (an article) by welding.| He rushed into the kitchen where a metal coat rack, which was a piece given to Nick from a friend who welded marvelous art pieces, stood.
		> 接合 |Unite (pieces of plastic or other material) by melting or softening of surfaces in contact.|
		> 使結合/使連成整體 |Cause to combine and form a harmonious or effective whole.| cross-curricular themes would weld the curriculum together
		> 焊接點 |A welded joint.|
		> 木犀草 |A widely distributed plant related to mignonette, yielding a yellow dye.|
		> 木犀草染料 |The yellow dye made from weld, which has been used since Neolithic times |

So for us, this all comes back to the beach. So we look around and we wonder, "How do these sea creatures stick? And what can we do with the technology?" And I would argue that we have really a lot of things we can still learn from biology and from nature. 

So what I would like to encourage you all to do in the future is put down your nonrecyclable laptops and cell phones and go out and explore the natural world and then start asking some of your own questions. 