[The enchanting music of sign language](https://www.ted.com/talks/christine_sun_kim_the_enchanting_music_of_sign_language/transcript?referrer=playlist-surprisingly_fun_ted_talks&language=en#t-905002)

Piano, "p," is my favorite musical symbol. It means to play softly. If you're playing a musical **instrument** and you notice a "p" in the *score*, you need to play softer. Two p's -- even softer. Four p's -- extremely soft. This is my drawing of a p-tree, which demonstrates no matter how many thousands upon thousands of p's there may be, you'll never reach complete silence. That's my current definition of silence: a very **obscure** sound. 
	- instrument /ˈɪnstrʊm(ə)nt/ 
		> 器具 |A tool or implement, especially one for precision work.| a surgical instrument
		> 手段 |A means of pursuing an aim.| the failure of education as an instrument of social reform
		> 器械 |A person who is exploited or made use of.| he was a mere instrument acting under coercion
		> 儀器 |A measuring device used to gauge the level, position, speed, etc. of something, especially a motor vehicle or aircraft.| a new instrument for measuring ozone levels
		> 樂器 |musical instrument|
		> 文書 |A formal or legal document.| execution involves signature and unconditional delivery of the instrument
		> |Equip (something) with measuring instruments.| engineers have instrumented rockets to study the upper atmosphere
	+ score
		> 分數 |The number of points, goals, runs, etc. achieved in a game or by a team or an individual.|
		> 得分 |An act of gaining a goal or point in a game.|
		> 得分 |Gain (a point, goal, run, etc.) in a competitive game.| McCartney scored a fine goal
		> 成績 |A rating or grade, such as a mark achieved in a test.| an IQ score of 161
		> 給……打分 |Decide on the score to be awarded to (a competitor)| the judge must score each dog and handler against this standard
		> 得(分) |Be worth (a number of points)| a yes answer scores ten points
		> 非法獲益 |The proceeds of a crime.| Sally had scored some acid
		> 得手 |Buy or acquire (something, typically illegal drugs)|
		> 情況/處境 |The state of affairs; the facts about the present situation.| What`s wrong Simon? What`s the score?
		> 二十 |A group or set of twenty or about twenty.| a score of men lost their lives in the battle
		> 總譜 |A written representation of a musical composition showing all the vocal and instrumental parts arranged one below the other.|
		> 把……寫成總譜 |Orchestrate or arrange (a piece of music), typically for a specified instrument or instruments.| the Quartet Suite was scored for flute, violin, viola da gamba, and continuo
		> 配樂 |The music composed for a film or play.| a film score
		> 配樂 |Compose the music for (a film or play)|
		> 刻痕/凹痕 |A notch or line cut or scratched into a surface.| check the shaft for scratches and scores
		> 刻痕於/做記號於 |Cut or scratch a notch or line on (a surface)| score the card until you cut through
		> 劃掉 |Delete text by drawing a line through it.|
	- scores of 大量的 == A large number of something.
		> he sent scores of enthusiastic letters to friends
	- obscure
		> 模糊的/不確定的 |Not discovered or known about; uncertain.| his origins and parentage are obscure
		> 無名的/無足輕重的 |Not important or well known.| a relatively obscure actor
		> 含糊不清的/晦澀的 |Not clearly expressed or easily understood.| obscure references to Proust
		> 模糊的/難以言喻的 |Hard to define; vague.| I feel an obscure resentment
		> 黑暗的/朦朧的 |Dark or dim.| the obscure light of dawn
		> 遮掩 |Keep from being seen; conceal.| grey clouds obscure the sun
		> 使難理解 |Make unclear and difficult to understand.| the debate has become obscured by conflicting ideological perspectives
		> 使不顯著/避免被知道 |Keep from being known.| none of this should obscure the skill and perseverance of the workers

I'd like to share a little bit about the history of American Sign Language, *ASL*, plus a bit of my own background. French sign language was brought to America during the early 1800s, and as time went by, mixed with local signs, it evolved into the language we know today as ASL. So it has a history of about 200 years. 
	- ASL 美國手語 == American Sign Language

I was born deaf, and I was taught to believe that sound wasn't a part of my life. And I believed it to be true. Yet, I realize now that that wasn't the case at all. Sound was very much a part of my life, really, on my mind every day. As a Deaf person living in a world of sound, it's as if I was living in a foreign country, blindly following its rules, customs, behaviors and norms without ever questioning them. 

So how is it that I understand sound? Well, I watch how people behave and respond to sound. You people are like my loudspeakers, and amplify sound. I learn and *mirror* that behavior. At the same time, I've learned that I create sound, and I've seen how people respond to me. Thus I've learned, for example ... "Don't slam the door!" "Don't make too much noise when you're eating from the *potato-chip bag*!" 
	- mirror
		> 鏡子 |A surface, typically of glass coated with a metal amalgam, which reflects a clear image.| he checked his appearance in the mirror
		> 反映/真實的寫照 |A thing regarded as accurately representing something else.| the stage is supposed to be the mirror of life
		> 反射出 |(of a surface) show a reflection of.| the clear water mirrored the sky
		> 符合/一致 |Correspond to.| his own views mirrored those of his followers
	- potato-chip bag 袋裝洋芋片

"Don't **burp**, and when you're eating, make sure you don't **scrape** your **utensils** on the plate." All of these things I **term** "sound **etiquette**." Maybe I think about sound etiquette more than the average hearing person does. I'm **hyper-vigilant** around sound. And I'm always waiting in eager nervous anticipation around sound, about what's to come next. 
	- burp /bəːp/ 
	- scrape
		> 刮/擦 |Drag or pull a hard or sharp implement across (a surface or object) so as to remove dirt or other matter.| remove the green tops from the carrots and scrape them
		> 把..刮掉 |Use a sharp or hard implement to remove (dirt or unwanted matter) from something.| she scraped the mud off her shoes
		> 用..刮 |Apply (a hard or sharp implement) to a surface so as to remove dirt or other matter.| he scraped the long-bladed razor across the stubble on his cheek
		> 挖出/刨出 |Make (a hollow) by scraping away soil or rock.| he found a ditch, scraped a hole, and put the bag in it
		> 凹洞 |A place where soil has been scraped away, especially a shallow hollow formed in the ground by a bird during a courtship display or for nesting.
		> 擦傷 |Rub or cause to rub by accident against a rough or hard surface, causing damage or injury.| he smashed into the wall and felt his teeth scrape against the plaster
		> 擦傷/擦痕 |An injury or mark caused by scraping.| there was a long, shallow scrape on his shin
		> 刮擦……使發出刺耳聲 |Draw or move (something) along or over something else, making a harsh noise.| she scraped back her chair and stood up
		> 發出刺耳聲 |Move with or make a harsh scraping sound.| she lifted the gate to prevent it scraping along the ground
		> 刮擦聲 |An act or sound of scraping.| he heard the scrape of his mother's key in the lock
		> 亂拉 |Play a violin tunelessly.| Olivia was scraping away at her violin
		> 勉強通過 |Narrowly pass by or through something.| there was only just room to scrape through between the tree and the edge of the stream
		> 勉強成功 |Barely manage to succeed in a particular undertaking.| Bowden scraped in with 180 votes at the last election
		> 設法達到 |Just manage to achieve; accomplish with great effort or difficulty.| Scotland scraped a lucky home draw with Portugal
		> 節省 |Try to save as much money as possible; economize.| they had scrimped and scraped and saved for years
		> 爬(資料) |Copy (data) from a website using a computer program.| all search engines scrape content from sites without permission and display it on their own sites| ringed plovers incubate eggs in shallow scrapes
		> |A procedure of dilatation of the cervix and curettage of the uterus.|
		> 困境/窘境 |An embarrassing or difficult predicament caused by one's own unwise behaviour.| he'd been in worse scrapes than this before now
	- scrape sth back == Draw one's hair tightly back off the forehead.
		> her hair was scraped back into a bun
	- scrape sth together/up 蒐集 == Collect or accumulate something with difficulty.
		> they could hardly scrape up enough money for one ticket, let alone two
	- scrape by/along 勉強維持生計 == Manage to live with difficulty.
		> she has to scrape by on Social Security
	- utensil /juːˈtɛns(ə)l/ 用具 == A tool, container, or other article, especially for household use.
	+ term
		> 專門名詞/術語 |A word or phrase used to describe a thing or to express a concept, especially in a particular kind of language or branch of study.| the musical term ‘leitmotiv’
		> 措辭 |Language used on a particular occasion; a way of expressing oneself.| a protest in the strongest possible terms
		> 詞 |A word or words that may be the subject or predicate of a proposition.| Every simple proposition contains two terms, predicate and subject.
		> 期/期限 |A fixed or limited period for which something, for example office, imprisonment, or investment, lasts or is intended to last.| the President is elected for a single four-year term
		> 孕期結束 |The completion of a normal length of pregnancy.| I was really keen to go to term and to have a home birth
		> 租用期 |A tenancy of a fixed period.|
		> 學期/開庭期 |Each of the periods in the year, alternating with holiday or vacation, during which instruction is given in a school, college, or university, or during which a law court holds sessions.| the summer term
		> 條件 |Conditions under which an action may be undertaken or agreement reached; stipulated or agreed requirements.| their solicitors had agreed terms
		> 要求額/費用 |Conditions with regard to payment for something; stated charges.| loans on favourable terms
		> 和平條約 |Agreed conditions under which a war or other dispute is brought to an end.| the United States played a key role in prodding the two sides to come to terms
		> 項 |Each of the quantities in a ratio, series, or mathematical expression.|
		> 把……稱為 |Give a descriptive name to; call by a specified term.| he has been termed the father of modern theology
	- etiquette /ˈɛtɪkɛt/, /ɛtɪˈkɛt/ 
	- vigilant /ˈvɪdʒɪl(ə)nt/ 警戒的 == Keeping careful watch for possible danger or difficulties.

Hence, this drawing. TBD, to be decided. TBC, to be continued. TBA, to be announced. And you notice the staff -- there are no notes contained in the lines. That's because the lines already contain sound through the subtle **smudges** and **smears**. 
	- smudge /smʌdʒ/ 
		> 弄髒 |Cause (something) to become messily smeared by rubbing it.| she dabbed her eyes, careful not to smudge her make-up
		> 塗抹 |Become smeared when rubbed.| mascaras that smudge or flake around the eyes
		> 使模糊 |Make blurred or indistinct.| the photograph had been smudged by the photocopier and was by no means as clear as the original
		> 汙點/汙跡 |A blurred or smeared mark on the surface of something.| a smudge of blood on the floor
		> 污漬 |An indistinct or blurred view or image.| the low smudge of hills on the horizon
		> 煙燻火堆 |A smoky outdoor fire that is lit to keep off insects or protect plants against frost.| discussions of the merits of various smudges at keeping bugs at bay
	- smear
		> 弄髒/弄汙  |Coat or mark (something) messily or carelessly with a greasy or sticky substance.| his face was smeared with dirt
		> 汙跡/汙斑 |A mark or streak of a greasy or sticky substance.| there was an oil smear on his jacket
		> 塗抹/塗上 |Spread (a greasy or sticky substance) over something.| she smeared sunblock on her skin
		> 把……擦模糊 |Messily blur the outline of (something such as writing or paint); smudge.| her lipstick was smeared
		> 誹謗 |Damage the reputation of (someone) by false accusations; slander.| someone was trying to smear her by faking letters
		> 誹謗 |A false accusation intended to damage someone's reputation.| the popular press were indulging in unwarranted smears
		> 塗片/抹片 |A sample of tissue or other material taken from part of the body, spread thinly on a microscope slide for examination, typically for medical diagnosis.| the smears were stained for cryptosporidium
		> 不穩固的立足點 |An insecure foothold.|

In Deaf culture, movement is **equivalent** to sound. This is a sign for "staff" in ASL. A typical staff contains five lines. Yet for me, signing it with my thumb sticking up like that doesn't feel natural. That's why you'll notice in my drawings, I stick to four lines on paper. 
	- equivalent /ɪˈkwɪv(ə)l(ə)nt/ 

In the year 2008, I had the opportunity to travel to Berlin, Germany, for an artist residency there. Prior to this time, I had been working as a painter. During this summer, I visited different museums and gallery spaces, and as I went from one place to the next, I noticed there was no visual art there. At that time, sound was trending, and this struck me ... there was no visual art, everything was auditory. 

Now sound has come into my art territory. Is it going to further distance me from art? I realized that doesn't have to be the case at all. I actually know sound. I know it so well that it doesn't have to be something just experienced through the ears. It could be felt **tactually**, or experienced as a visual, or even as an idea. 
	? Is it going to further distance me from art  它會更加阻礙我對藝術的理解嗎？ 
	- tactual /ˈtaktʃʊəl/ == tactile /ˈtaktʌɪl/ 
		> 觸覺的 |Of or connected with the sense of touch.| vocal and visual signals become less important as tactile signals intensify
		> 能觸知的/有形的 |Perceptible by touch or apparently so; tangible.| she had a distinct, almost tactile memory of the girl fleeing
		> 以觸覺為設計的 |Designed to be perceived by touch.| tactile exhibitions help blind people enjoy the magic of sculpture
		> |(of a person) given to touching other people, especially as an unselfconscious expression of sympathy or affection.| he took her in his arms—he's a very tactile person

So I decided to reclaim ownership of sound and to put it into my art practice. And everything that I had been taught regarding sound, I decided to do away with and unlearn. I started creating a new body of work. And when I presented this to the art community, I was *blown away* with the amount of support and attention I received. I realized: sound is like money, power, control -- *social currency*. In the back of my mind, I've always felt that sound was your thing, a hearing person's thing. And sound is so powerful that it could either disempower me and my artwork, or it could empower me. I chose to be empowered.
	- blow away sb
		> 使驚喜 |to surprise someone very much| Winning first prize and a full scholarship blew her away.
		> 徹底擊敗 |to defeat a competitor completely| We just got blown away yesterday, losing 12 to 0.
		> 射殺 |to shoot and kill a person.|
	? at/in the back of your mind 在潛意識裡/下意識地 == If something is at/in the back of your mind, you intend to do it, but are not actively thinking about it.
		> It's been at the back of my mind to call José for several days now, but I haven't got round to it yet.
	- social currency 社交貨幣，指人們為了提升自己的好形象（而非壞形象）而談論某事

There's a massive culture around spoken language. And just because I don't use my **literal** voice to communicate, in society's eyes it's as if I don't have a voice at all. So I need to work with individuals who can support me as an equal and become my voice. And that way, I'm able to maintain **relevancy** in society today. 
	- literal /ˈlɪt(ə)r(ə)l/ 
	- relevancy, relevance /ˈrɛləv(ə)ns/ 相關 == The quality or state of being closely connected or appropriate.
		> this film has contemporary relevance

So at school, at work and institutions, I work with many different ASL interpreters. And their voice becomes my voice and identity. They help me to be heard. And their voices hold value and currency. Ironically, by borrowing out their voices, I'm able to maintain a *temporary* form of currency, kind of like taking out a **loan** with a very high interest rate. If I didn't continue this practice, I feel that I could just *fade off* into **oblivion** and not maintain any form of social currency. 
	- temporary /ˈtɛmp(ə)rəri/ 
		> 臨時的/暫時的 |Lasting for only a limited period of time; not permanent.| a temporary job
		> 臨時工 |A person employed on a temporary basis, typically an office worker who finds employment through an agency.| to gain flexibility, companies are bringing in temporaries or contracting out work
	- loan /ləʊn/ 
	- oblivion /əˈblɪvɪən/ 

So with sound as my new art medium, I **delved** into the world of music. And I was surprised to see the similarities between music and ASL. For example, a musical note cannot be fully captured and expressed on paper. And the same holds true for a concept in ASL. They're both highly spatial and highly **inflected** -- meaning that **subtle** changes can affect the entire meaning of both signs and sounds. 
	- delve /dɛlv/ 
		> 搜索 |Reach inside a receptacle and search for something.| she delved in her pocket
		> 探究/鑽研 |Research or make painstaking inquiries into something.| the society is determined to delve deeper into the matter
	- inflect
		> 屈折變化 |Change the form of (a word) to express a particular grammatical function or attribute, typically tense, mood, person, number, and gender.| Arabic verbs are inflected for person, number, and gender
		> 屈折變化 |(of a word or language) undergo inflection.| all of these words inflect irregularly
		> 使變音 |Vary the intonation or pitch of (the voice), especially to express mood or feeling.| his slight voice, inflected with a token touch of grit
		> 使變調 |Vary the pitch of (a musical note).|
		> 影響 |Influence or colour (music or writing) in tone or style.| her analysis may have been inflected by the upsurge of feminism
		> 彎曲 |Bend or deflect (something), especially inwards.| particles readily inflect, deflect and jostle one another
	- subtle /ˈsʌt(ə)l/ 

I'd like to share with you a piano metaphor, to have you have a better understanding of how ASL works. So, **envision** a piano. ASL is broken down into many different grammatical parameters. If you assign a different parameter to each finger as you play the piano -- such as facial expression, body movement, speed, hand shape and so on, as you play the piano -- English is a linear language, as if one key is being pressed at a time. However, ASL is more like a **chord** -- all 10 fingers need to come down **simultaneously** to express a clear concept or idea in ASL. If just one of those keys were to change the chord, it would create a completely different meaning. The same applies to music in regards to pitch, tone and volume. In ASL, by playing around with these different grammatical parameters, you can express different ideas. 
	- envision /ɛnˈvɪʒ(ə)n/ 想像/展望 == Imagine as a future possibility; visualize.
	- chord /kɔːd/ 
		> 和弦/和音 |A group of (typically three or more) notes sounded together, as a basis of harmony.| the triumphal opening chords
		> 奏和音 |Play, sing, or arrange notes in chords.| his chording makes an exhilarating accompaniment to the melody
		> 弦 |A straight line joining the ends of an arc.|
		> |Each of the two principal members of a truss.| a stabilizer chord
		> 髓 |cord| the spinal chord
		> 絃 |A string on a harp or other instrument.|
	- simultaneously /ˌsɪmlˈteɪnɪəsli/ 

For example, take the sign TO-LOOK-AT. This is the sign TO-LOOK-AT. I'm looking at you. Staring at you. 

Oh -- *busted*. 噢——被逮到了！ 

Uh-oh. What are you looking at? Aw, stop. 

I then started thinking, "What if I was to look at ASL through a musical lens?" If I was to create a sign and repeat it over and over, it could become like a piece of visual music. For example, this is the sign for "day," as the sun rises and sets. This is "all day." If I was to repeat it and slow it down, visually it looks like a piece of music. All ... day. I feel the same holds true for "all night." "All night." This is ALL-NIGHT, represented in this **drawing**. And this led me to thinking about three different kinds of nights: "last night," "overnight," (Sings) "all night long." 

I feel like the third one has a lot more **musicality** than the other two. 
	- musicality
		> 音樂天份/音感 |Musical talent or sensitivity.| her beautiful, rich tone and innate musicality
		> 悅耳 |The quality of having a pleasant sound; melodiousness.| the natural musicality of the language

This represents how time is expressed in ASL and how the distance from your body can express the changes in time. For example, 1H is one hand, 2H is two hand, present tense happens closest and in front of the body, future is in front of the body and the past is to your back. So, the first example is "a long time ago." Then "past," "used to" and the last one, which is my favorite, with the very romantic and dramatic notion to it, "once upon a time." 

"Common time" is a musical term with a specific time signature of four beats per measure. Yet when I see the word "common time," what automatically comes to mind for me is "at the same time." So notice RH: right hand, LH: left hand. We have the staff across the head and the chest. 
	? "Common time" is a musical term with a specific time signature of four beats per measure. 「四四拍」 是一個音樂術語， 代表每小節有四拍

I'm now going to demonstrate a hand shape called the "flash claw." Can you please follow along with me? Everybody, hands up. Now we're going to do it in both the head and the chest, kind of like "common time" or at the same time. Yes, got it. That means "to fall in love" in International [Sign]. 

International [Sign], as a note, is a visual tool to help communicate across cultures and sign languages around the world. 

The second one I'd like to demonstrate is this -- please follow along with me again. And now this. This is "**colonization**" in ASL. 
	- colonization
		> 殖民/殖民地化 |The action or process of settling among and establishing control over the indigenous people of an area.| Africa boasts a tradition of higher education institutions that predate Western colonization
		> 掌控 |The action of appropriating a place or domain for one's own use.| the complete colonization of television entertainment by reality shows
		> 移生 |The action by a plant or animal of establishing itself in an area.| lower airway bacterial colonization

Now the third -- please follow along again. And again. This is "enlightenment" in ASL. So let's do all three together. "Fall in love," "colonization" and "enlightenment." Good job, everyone. 

Notice how all three signs are very similar, they all happen at the head and the chest, but they convey quite different meanings. 

So it's amazing to see how ASL is alive and thriving, just like music is. However, in this day and age, we live in a very audio-centric world. And just because ASL has no sound to it, it automatically holds no social currency. We need to start thinking harder about what defines social currency and allow ASL to develop its own form of currency -- without sound. And this could possibly be a step to lead to a more inclusive society. And maybe people will understand that you don't need to be deaf to learn ASL, nor do you have to be hearing to learn music. 

ASL is such a rich treasure that I'd like you to have the same experience. And I'd like to invite you to open your ears, to open your eyes, take part in our culture and experience our visual language. And you never know, you might just fall in love with us. 

