## Essay
The reading and the lecture are both about fossil of Tyrannosaurus rex. The author of the reading feels that the fossil contains some actual tissues of the animal, whereas the lecturer challenges the claims made by the author. In short, he is of the opinion that the identifications made in the reading is skeptical.

The author contends that the leg bone part enclose many small branching channels which are recognized as blood vessels. The article mentions that in hollows in the bones are likely to be the place where blood vessels were since some soft substance are found. The specific argument is challenged by the lecturer who claims that those substance can not be absolutely blood vessel. Additionally, he says that some bacteria living inside bones often leave a trace of organic material which are mistakenly regard as remains of blood vessels by the researchers.

The author suggests that some specific spheres are examined inside the inner bones. In the article, it is said that the spheres were tested and contained iron which are the essential part of red blood cells. The lecturer, however, rebuts this by remarking that other animals excavated at the same place also presented the same spheres. Furthermore, he elaborates on this by bringing up the point that some of the animals having the spheres are not ones that have any blood cells when they were alive, which shows that the sphere were possibly some reddish mineral.

The author posit that a test manifested that the collagen existed in the leg bone. Moreover, it is stated in the article that collagen is a fibrous protein that is a main component of living bone tissue. In contrast, he lecturer's position is that some theories show that collagen can't survive for up to seventy million years ago. He notes that the collagen found in the leg bone are from humans who left their own collagen of the skin to the fossil.

## Review
The reading and the lecture are both about fossil of Tyrannosaurus rex. The author of the reading feels that the fossil contains some actual tissues of the animal, whereas the lecturer challenges the claims made by the author. In short, he is of the opinion that the identifications made in the reading is skeptical.

*To begin with,* the author contends that the leg bone part enclose many small branching channels which are recognized as blood vessels. The article mentions *that hollows* in the bones are likely to be the place where blood vessels were since some soft substance are found. The specific argument is challenged by the lecturer who claims that *the* substance *can not ensure that they are really* blood vessel. Additionally, he says that some bacteria living inside bones often leave a trace of organic *materials* which are mistakenly regard as remains of blood vessels by the researchers.

*Secondly*, the author suggests that some specific spheres are examined inside the inner bones. In the article, it is said that the spheres were tested and contained iron which *were deemed as* the essential part of red blood cells. The lecturer, however, rebuts this by remarking that other animals excavated at the same place also presented the same spheres. Furthermore, he elaborates on this by bringing up the point that some of the animals having the spheres are *species* that *do not* have any blood cells when they were *still* alive, which indicate that the sphere were possibly some reddish mineral.

*Finally,* the author *posits* that a test **manifested** that the collagen existed in the leg bone. Moreover, it is stated in the article that *collagen is exactly the kind of material that are expected to be discovered with bone tissue*. In contrast, he lecturer's position is that some theories *reveal* that collagen can't survive for up to seventy million years ago *since collagen older than one hundred thousand years are never found.* He notes that the collagen found in the leg bone is possible to *originate* from humans who left their own collagen *from* the skin to the fossil.

## Vocab
+ show 顯示 == demonstrate == display == manifest == exhibit == illustrate == indicate == reveal == report == suggest

## Passage
Animal fossils usually provide very little opportunity to study the actual animal tissues, because in fossils the animals' living tissues have been largely replaced by minerals. Thus, scientists were very excited recently when it appeared that a 70-million-year-old fossil of Tyrannosaurus rex (T. rex), a dinosaur, might still contain remains of the actual tissues of the animal. The discovery was made when researchers deliberately broke open the T. rex’s leg bone, thereby exposing its insides to reveal materials that seem to be remains of blood vessels, red blood cells, and collagen matrix.

First, the breaking of the fossilized leg bone revealed many small branching channels inside, which probably correspond to hollows in the bones where blood vessels were once located. The exciting finding was the presence of a soft, flexible organic substance inside the channels. This soft substance may very well represent the remains of the actual blood vessels of T. rex.

Second, microscopic examination of the various parts of the inner bone revealed the presence of spheres that could be the remains of red blood cells. Tests showed that the spheres contained iron-a material vital to the role of red blood cells in transporting oxygen to tissues. Moreover, the spheres had dark red centers (substances with iron tend to be reddish in color) and were also about the size of red blood cells.

Third, scientists performed a test on the dinosaur leg bone that showed that it contained collagen. Collagen is a fibrous protein that is a main component of living bone tissue, in which it forms a so-called collagen matrix. Collagen (or its chemical derivatives) is exactly the kind of biochemical material that one would expect to find in association with bone tissue.

## Lecture
As much as we would like to have the remains of actual dinosaur tissue, there are sound reasons for being skeptical of the identifications made in the reading.

First, the soft, flexible substance inside the bone channels isn’t necessarily the remains of blood vessels. It’s much more likely to be something else. Like what, you might say. Well, long after an organism is died, bacteria sometimes colonize hollows, empty areas in bones, like the channels that once held blood vessels. When bacteria live inside bones, they often leave behind traces of organic material. What the researchers in the reading are identifying as blood vessels might just be traces of soft and moist residue left by bacteria colonies.

All right. What about the iron-filled spheres? Well, the problem is that scientists found identical reddish spheres in fossils of other animals found in the same place. That includes fossils of primitive animals that did not have any red blood cells when they were alive. Clearly, if these spheres appear in organisms that did not have any red blood cells, then the spheres cannot be the remains of red blood cells. The spheres probably have a very different origin. They are probably just pieces of reddish mineral.

Third, the collagen. The problem is that we have never found collagen in animal remains that are older than one hundred thousand years. Collagen probably cannot last longer than that. Finding collagen from an animal that lived seventy million years ago would really contradict our ideas about how long collagen can last. It is just too improbable. The most likely explanation for the presence of the collagen is that it doesn’t come from the T.rex, but from another much more recent source. For example, human skin contains collagen, so the collagen may have come from the skin of the researchers who are handling the bone.