## Topic

Milk and dairy products are rich in vitamin D and calcium — substances essential for building and maintaining bones. Many people therefore say that a diet rich in dairy products can help prevent osteoporosis, a disease that is linked to both environmental and genetic factors and that causes the bones to weaken significantly with age. But a long-term study of a large number of people found that those who consistently consumed dairy products throughout the years of the study have a higher rate of bone fractures than any other participants in the study. Since bone fractures are symptomatic of osteoporosis, this study result shows that a diet rich in dairy products may actually increase, rather than decrease, the risk of osteoporosis.

Write a response in which you discuss what specific evidence is needed to evaluate the argument and explain how the evidence would weaken or strengthen the argument.

## 30min

Regarding the issue, the author of the argument concludes that a diet rich in dairy products cause higher risk of osteoporosis, which go beyond the expectation of people. To justify the conclustion, the author points out that dairy products are rife with vitamin D and calcium as milk and a long-term study found that people who regularly consume dairy products have a higher rate of bone fractures which are the sign of osteoporosis, which may seem plausible at first glance. Nevertheless, the argument failes to be completely compelling as it stands for it contains a wide array of unwarranted assumptions, by virtue of the lack of impregnable evidences.

First of all, the author simply assumes that dairy products are like milk which is beneficial to the body since it contains a lot of vitamin D and calcium. The assertion is a stretch and not substantiated in any any, though it is not entirely preposterous. It is much likely that dairy products have others substances that could cause other diseases which can not be engendered by the unmanfactured milk. There are numberous examples that could explain that dairy products are, in part, different from milk. For instance, a manfacturer, for the popularity of its dairy products, add many additives to enchance the flavor and mouthfeel of its dairy products. Therefore, these kind of additives could be the main reason that bring about osteoporosis for those who regularly have the dairy products. In order to reinforce the argument, the author must furnish more credible evidences and have to account for and rule out this and other possible explanations.

What is more, the author claims that the long-term study of a large number of people must be inerrant; thus, the argument suggests that that consistent consumption of dairy products throughout the years must be the main reason that why those people have a higher rate of bone fractures. Specifically, this is again a very weak and misleading claim as the argument did not provide any details about sample of the study. In fact, if the study generally surveyed the condition within a nation, those people who regular consumed dairy products could be elders since olders may think that they are more likely to have the problem of osteoporosis. So, the study suggesting it is caused by the dairy products is incorrect, which should be contributed to the age. If the author provided the detail of the samples in the long-term study, the argument could have been strengthened even further.

Finaaly, the author premises that a diet abundant with dairy products must lead to higher risk of osteoporosis. Admittedly, it is true especially when it comes to the fact that the long-term study's suggestion is correct. In addition, if the dairy products actually have plentous vitamin D and calcium and do not contains insidious materials, the author's implication is absolutely right. However, the argument does not constitute a sufficient support to proclaim that people having diet rich in dairy products have are more likely to have osteoporosis than others. Because different people intake differnt amount of calcium from other meals, we could not precisely conclude that how many  dairy products is superfluous for the people. In other words, even though two people have the same kind of dairy products taken within a day, their eventual amount of calcium could still be different since they do not have selfsame diet and healthy condition.

In summary, the argument is flawd and thereby unconvincing. It could be considerably improved if the author clearly mentions all relevant facts. In an attempt to assess the merits of a certain situation, it is essential to include more unbiased contributing factors.

## Review
Regarding the issue, the author of the argument concludes that a diet rich in dairy products cause higher risk of osteoporosis, which go beyond the expectation of people. To justify the *conclusion*, the author points out that dairy products are rife with vitamin D and calcium as milk and a long-term study found that people who regularly consume dairy products have a higher rate of bone fractures which are the sign of osteoporosis, which may seem plausible at first glance. Nevertheless, the argument *fails* to be completely compelling as it stands for it contains a wide array of unwarranted assumptions, by virtue of the lack of impregnable evidences.

First of all, the author simply assumes that dairy products are like milk which is beneficial to the body since it contains a lot of vitamin D and calcium. The assertion is a stretch and not substantiated in any *way*, though it is not entirely preposterous. It is much likely that dairy products have others substances that could cause other diseases which can not be engendered by the *unmanufactured* milk. There are *numerous* examples that could explain that dairy products are, in part, different from milk. For instance, a *manufacturer*, for the popularity of its dairy products, add many additives to *enhance* the flavor and mouthfeel of its dairy products. Therefore, these kind of additives could be the main reason that bring about osteoporosis for those who regularly have the dairy products. In order to reinforce the argument, the author must furnish more credible evidences and have to account for and rule out this and other possible explanations.

What is more, the author claims that the long-term study of a large number of people must be inerrant; thus, the argument suggests that that consistent consumption of dairy products throughout the years must be the main reason that why those people have a higher rate of bone fractures. Specifically, this is again a very weak and misleading claim as the argument did not provide any details about sample of the study. In fact, if the study generally surveyed the condition within a nation, those people who regular consumed dairy products could be elders since *seniors* may think that they are more likely to have the problem of osteoporosis. So, the study suggesting it is caused by the dairy products is incorrect, which should be contributed to the age. If the author provided the detail of the samples in the long-term study, the argument could have been strengthened even further.

*Finally*, the author premises that a diet abundant with dairy products must lead to higher risk of osteoporosis. Admittedly, it is true especially when it comes to the fact that the long-term study's suggestion is correct. In addition, if the dairy products actually have *plenteous* vitamin D and calcium and do not contains insidious materials, the author's implication is absolutely right. However, the argument does not constitute a sufficient support to proclaim that people having diet rich in dairy products *~~have~~* are more likely to have osteoporosis than others. Because different people intake *disparate* amount of calcium from other meals, we could not precisely conclude that how many dairy products is superfluous for the people. In other words, even though two people have the same kind of dairy products taken within a day, their eventual amount of calcium could still be different since they do not have selfsame diet and healthy condition.

In summary, the argument is *flawed* and thereby unconvincing. It could be considerably improved if the author clearly mentions all relevant facts. In an attempt to assess the merits of a certain situation, it is essential to include more unbiased contributing factors.