## Topic

Humans arrived in the Kaliko Islands about 7,000 years ago, and within 3,000 years most of the large mammal species that had lived in the forests of the Kaliko Islands were extinct. Previous archaeological findings have suggested that early humans generally relied on both fishing and hunting for food; since archaeologists have discovered numerous sites in the Kaliko Islands where the bones of fish were discarded, it is likely that the humans also hunted the mammals. Furthermore, researchers have uncovered simple tools, such as stone knives, that could be used for hunting. The only clear explanation is that humans caused the extinction of the various mammal species through excessive hunting.

Write a response in which you discuss one or more alternative explanations that could rival the proposed explanation and explain how your explanation(s) can plausibly account for the facts presented in the argument.

## 30min
Regarding the issue, the author of the argument concludes that the humans who had arrived the Kaliko Islands about 7,000 years ago caused the extinction of the various mammal species. To justify the conclusion, the author points out that archaeologists found the tools and bones that seemingly indicates that the people hunt the mammal on the islands and, therefore, fostered the extinction of the species. Nevertheless, the argument failes to be completely compelling as it stands for it contains a wide array of unwarranted assumption by virtue of the lack of impregnable evidences.

First of all, the author simply assumes that the inhabitants hunted the mammals since they have found the vestige of fish bone. The assertion is a stretch and not substantiated in any way, though it is not entirely preposterous. It is much likely they did not hunt any mammals. There are numerous examples that justify why the people who eats fishes had not hunted mammals for their provision. For instance, those large mammal species living on the islands are the kind of species that are very ferocious than of the other region. And, after tremendous people losing their lives for hunting the animals, they had decided to choose a more innocuous way, which is sustain their lives by fishing. In order to reinforce the argument, the author should furnish more creidble evidences and have to account to and rule out this and other possible explanations.

What is more, the author claims that stone knives were unearthed from the islands; thus it suggests that the human used the tools to hunt the mammals as their food or materials. Specifically, it is again a very weak and misleading claim as the argument did not provide any utilization of those tools. In fact, those stone knifes which seems to be used a weapon or hunting tools were used the instrument for the cooking. For one possibility, some fish owned hard shell at the anicent period, and the people need special tool to handle those prickly parts of the fish. If the author could provided the evidences that verify the use of those tools, the arugment could have been strengthened even further.

Finally, the argument premises that previous archaeological findings have identified that humans living in the Kaliko Islands must also rely on both fishing and hunting for food as the general tendency. Admittedly, this is true especially when it comes to that those findings never find any exception in their investigation throughout the whole world. In addition, those bones of fish and the seeming-weaponed tools also suggests that they could have the habits as the people living in the other region. However, the argument does not constitute a sufficient backing to proclaim that the the Kaliko Islands' inhabitants were identical as the other society at the period. Because they could have lived under a very different environment, we can not conclude that they not only fishing but hunting the mammals as their nutrition to sustain their life.

In summary, the argument is flawed and there unconvincing. It could be considerably improved if the author clearly mentions all relevent facts. In an attempt to assess the merits of a certain situation, it is essential to include more unbiased contributing factors.

## Review
Regarding the issue, the author of the argument concludes that the humans who had arrived the Kaliko Islands about 7,000 years ago caused the extinction of the various mammal species **in the Kaliko Islands**. To justify the conclusion, the author points out that archaeologists found the tools and bones that seemingly indicates that the people hunt the mammal on the islands and, therefore, fostered the extinction of the species. Nevertheless, the argument fails to be completely compelling as it stands for it contains a wide array of unwarranted *assumptions* by virtue of the lack of impregnable evidences.

First of all, the author simply assumes that the inhabitants hunted the mammals since they have found the vestige of fish bone. The assertion is a stretch and not substantiated in any way, though it is not entirely preposterous. It is much likely *that* they did not hunt any mammals. There are numerous examples that justify why the people who eats fishes had not hunted mammals *as* their provision. For instance, those large mammal species living on the islands are the kind of species that are very *ferocious* than of the other region. And, after *abundant* people losing their lives for hunting the animals, they had decided to choose a more innocuous way, which *was to* sustain their lives by fishing. In order to reinforce the argument, the author should furnish more *credible* evidences and have to account *for* and rule out this and other possible explanations.

What is more, the author claims that stone knives were unearthed from the islands; thus it suggests that the human used the tools to hunt the mammals as their food or materials. Specifically, it is again a very weak and misleading claim as the argument did not provide any utilization of those tools. In fact, those stone knifes which seems to be used a weapon or hunting tools were used *as* the instrument for the cooking. For one possibility, some *fishes* *possessing* hard shell, and **thereby** the people, **naturally**, *needed* special *tools* to handle those prickly parts of the fish. If the author could provided the evidences that verify the use of those tools, the argument could have been strengthened even further.

Finally, the argument premises that previous archaeological findings have identified that humans living in the Kaliko Islands must also rely on both fishing and hunting for food as the general tendency. Admittedly, this is true especially when it comes to that those findings never find any exception in their investigation throughout the whole world. In addition, those bones of fish and the seeming-weaponed tools also suggests that they could have the habits as the people living in the other region. However, the argument does not constitute a sufficient backing to proclaim that the Kaliko Islands' inhabitants were identical as the other society at the period. Because they could have lived under a very different environment **- surrounded by water**, we can not *deduce* that they not only fishing but hunting the mammals as their nutrition to sustain their life.

In summary, the argument is flawed and there unconvincing. It could be considerably improved if the author clearly mentions all *relevant* facts. In an attempt to assess the merits of a certain situation, it is essential to include more unbiased contributing factors.