## Topic

The following memo appeared in the newsletter of the West Meria Public Health Council.

"An innovative treatment has come to our attention that promises to significantly reduce absenteeism in our schools and workplaces. A study reports that in nearby East Meria, where fish consumption is very high, people visit the doctor only once or twice per year for the treatment of colds. This shows that eating a substantial amount of fish can clearly prevent colds. Furthermore, since colds are the reason most frequently given for absences from school and work, attendance levels will improve. Therefore, we recommend the daily use of a nutritional supplement derived from fish oil as a good way to prevent colds and lower absenteeism."

Write a response in which you discuss what questions would need to be answered in order to decide whether the recommendation and the argument on which it is based are reasonable. Be sure to explain how the answers to these questions would help to evaluate the recommendation.

## 30 min

Regard the issue, the author of the argument concludes that a nutritional supplement from fish oil will be an effectively treatment to improve absenteeism in their schools. To justify the conclusion, the author points out that a study shows that fish consumption possibly improve the occurrence of cold and the cold is the main reason of absences from school and work, which may seem plausible at first glance. Nevertheless, the argument fails to be completely compelling as it stand for it contains a wide array of unwarranted assumption, by virtue of the lack of impregnable evidences.

First of all, the author simply assumes that the the study's summary is that people living in nearby East Meria consumed lots of fish a day and thus having fish is the cause of why they seldom visit the doctor. This assertion is a stretch and not substantiated in any way, though it is not entirely preposterous. It is much likely that other factors cause the people in nearby East Meria are much healthier than the other regions'. There are numerous examples that could warrant their health and also their huge consumption of fish. For instance, in East Meria there is a colossal habor that provides fishes for whole Meria region. Because of the low cost of transportion, the people in nearby East Meria could acquire cheaper fish, which is the reason of why their fish consumption is very high. On the other hand, the region have few doctors, which is the reason why they seemingly seldom have a cold because they can not find a doctor near their household. To reinforce the argument, the author should furnish more credible evidences and have to account for and rule out this or other possible explanations.

What is more, the author claims that colds are the reason most frequently given for absences from school and work. thus, it suggest that absences was mainly brought about by the cold. Specifically, this is again a very weak and misleading claim as the argument does not provide any specific detail about the reason of absenteeism in their school. In fact, having cold may just be a subterfuge or excuse for the people who are not willing to attend school or work or to tell their real purpose of abscence. If the argument provided the evidence that their absence was acutally by cold and provide the relevant data, the argument could have been strengthened even further.

Finally, the author premises that a nutritional supplement derived from fish oil has the same effect of eating actual fish. This is true when its comes to a study showing that fish oil contains all principal nutritiona of a fish. In addition, if the study correlating fish consumption and health was proved believeable, the nutritional supplement, indeed, would boost the absenteeism in their schools. However, the argument does not constitute sufficient support to proclaim that nutritional supplement from fish oil effectively would alterante reduce the absenteeism. Because there is not any study provided by the author to prove that the kind of nutritional supplement have the same effect as the real fish for provision.

In summary, the argument is flawed and therefore unconvicing. To improve the argument, there must be more studies and facts being subsumed in the passage to convince the readers. In an attempt to assess the merits of a certains situation, it is essential to include more unbiased contributing factors.

## Review
*Regarding* the issue, the author of the argument concludes that a nutritional supplement from fish oil will be an *effective* treatment to improve absenteeism in their schools. To justify the conclusion, the author points out that a study shows that fish consumption possibly improve the occurrence of cold and the cold is the main reason of absences from school and work, which may seem plausible at first glance. Nevertheless, the argument fails to be completely compelling as it *stands* for it contains a wide array of unwarranted *assumptions*, by virtue of the lack of impregnable evidences.

First of all, the author simply assumes that the the study's summary is that people living in nearby East Meria consumed lots of fish a day and thus having fish is the cause of why they seldom visit the doctor. This assertion is a stretch and not substantiated in any way, though it is not entirely preposterous. It is much likely that other factors cause the people in nearby East Meria are much healthier than the other regions'. There are numerous examples that could warrant their health and, also, their huge consumption of fish. For instance, in East Meria there is a colossal *harbor* that provides fishes for whole Meria region. Because of the low cost of *transportation*, the people in nearby East Meria could acquire cheaper fish, which is the reason of why their fish consumption is very high. On the other hand, the region have few doctors, which is the reason why they seemingly seldom have a cold because they can not find a doctor near their household. To reinforce the argument, the author should furnish more credible evidences and have to account for and rule out this or other possible explanations.

What is more, the author claims that colds are the reason most frequently given for absences from school and work; thus, it suggest that absences was mainly brought about by the cold. Specifically, this is again a very weak and misleading claim as the argument does not provide any specific detail about the reason of absenteeism in their school. In fact, having cold may just be *~~a~~* subterfuge or excuse for the people who are not willing to attend school or work or to *leak* their real *purposes* of *the absence*. If the argument provided the evidence that their absence was *actually* *induced* by cold and provide the *pertinent proof*, the argument could have been strengthened even further.

Finally, the author premises that a nutritional supplement derived from fish oil has the same effect of eating actual fish. *Admittedly*, this is true *especially* when its comes to a study showing that fish oil contains all principal *nutrition* within a fish. In addition, if the study correlating fish consumption *with* health was proved *believable*, the nutritional supplement, indeed, would boost the absenteeism in their schools. However, the argument does not constitute *a* sufficient support to proclaim that nutritional supplement from fish oil would *effectively*  reduce the absenteeism. Because there is not any study provided by the author to prove that the kind of nutritional supplement have the same *power* as the real fish for provision, **to say nothing of the other study that refer to the consumption in nearby East Meria.**

In summary, the argument is flawed and therefore *unconvincing*. **It could be considerably improved if there must more relevant studies and facts being subsumed in the passage.** In an attempt to assess the merits of a *certain* situation, it is essential to include more unbiased contributing factors.