## Topic

The following appeared in the summary of a study on headaches suffered by the residents of Mentia.

"Salicylates are members of the same chemical family as aspirin, a medicine used to treat headaches. Although many foods are naturally rich in salicylates, for the past several decades, food-processing companies have also been adding salicylates to foods as preservatives. This rise in the commercial use of salicylates has been found to correlate with a steady decline in the average number of headaches reported by participants in our twenty-year study. Recently, food-processing companies have found that salicylates can also be used as flavor additives for foods. With this new use for salicylates, we can expect a continued steady decline in the number of headaches suffered by the average citizen of Mentia."

Write a response in which you examine the stated and/or unstated assumptions of the argument. Be sure to explain how the argument depends on these assumptions and what the implications are for the argument if the assumptions prove unwarranted.

## 30min

Regarding the issue, the author of the argument concludes that, with more salicylates added to the food, a gradual decline in the number of headaches suffered by the average citizen of Mentia is expected. To justify the conclusion, the author points out that salicylates are closely related to aspirin and commercial use of salicylates in food perservation correlated with the decline in the average number of the headaches in a long-term study. Nevertheless, the argument fails to be completely compelling as it stands for it contains a wide array of unwarranted assumptions, by virtue of the lack of impregnable evidences.

First of all, the author simply assumes that salicylates have the identical effect as aspirin since both belongs to the same chemical famliy. The assertion is a stretch and not substantiated in any way, though it is not entirely preposterous. It is much likely that they have very disparate effect when working on the human body. There are numerous examples that could show totolly differnt traits are possible even in the same chemical family. To reinforce the argument, the author needs to provide more credible evidences and have to account for and rule out other possible explanations.

What is more, the author claims that food-processing companies have been using salicylates to presever foods; thus, the author suggests that a steady declin in the average number of headaches in twenty-year study should be contributed to salicylates generalized by the food-processing companies. Specifically, this is again very weak and misleading claim as the argument did not supply any detail of the study. In fact, there could be several common features existing in those participants during the twenty years; be that as it may, the author deduce that the salicylates hypotheis was proved since the one of the common features is the increment in salicylates used in the foods. If the author provided the evidence that onjectively expatiates the content of the study and its samples, the argument could have been strengenthed even further.

Finally, the author premises that a new use, which salicylates could work as flavor additives for foods, must enlarge its use in foods. Admittedly, it is true especially when it comes to the fact that salicylates create a flavor which other chemical can not imitate. In addition, if salicylates could be used as a cheap flavor additive, its potential widespreadness become more expected. However, the argument does not constitute a sufficient support to proclaim that food-processing companies will use it as a flavor additive and thus decrease the number of headaches. Because the companies could rather use another cheaper and more savored chemical as flavor additives, we cannot confirm that continued use of salicylates is reasonable.

In summary, the argument is flawed and therefore unconvincing. It can be considerably improved if the author clearly mentions all relevant facts. In an attempt to assess the merits of a certain situation, it is essential to include more unbiased contributing factors.

## Review
Regarding the issue, the author of the argument concludes that, with more salicylates added to the food, a gradual decline in the number of headaches suffered by the average citizen of Mentia is expected. To justify the conclusion, the author points out that salicylates are closely related to aspirin and commercial use of salicylates in food *preservation* correlated with the decline in the average number of the headaches in a long-term study. Nevertheless, the argument fails to be completely compelling as it stands for it contains a wide array of unwarranted assumptions, by virtue of the lack of impregnable evidences.

First of all, the author simply assumes that salicylates have the identical effect as aspirin since both belongs to the same chemical family. The assertion is a stretch and not substantiated in any way, though it is not entirely preposterous. It is much likely that they have very disparate effect when working on the human body. There are numerous examples that could show *totally* *different* traits are possible even in the same chemical family. **For instance, methanol, despite use as alcohol before, contains low acute toxicities; on the other hand, *isopropanol* is lethal even with small amount.** *In order to* reinforce the argument, the author needs to provide more credible evidences and have to account for and rule out  other possible explanations.

What is more, the author claims that food-processing companies have been using salicylates to *preserve* foods; thus, the author suggests that a steady *decline* in the average number of headaches in twenty-year study should be contributed to salicylates generalized by the food-processing companies. Specifically, this is again very weak and misleading claim as the argument did not supply any detail of the study. In fact, there could be several common features existing in those participants during the twenty years; be that as it may, the author deduce that the salicylates *hypothesis* was proved since the one of the common features is the increment in salicylates used in the foods. If the author provided the evidence that *objectively* expatiates the content of the study and its samples, the argument could have been *strengthened* even further.

Finally, the author premises that a new use, which salicylates could work as flavor additives for foods, must enlarge its use in foods. Admittedly, it is true especially when it comes to the fact that salicylates create a flavor which other chemical can not imitate. In addition, if salicylates could be used as a cheap flavor additive, its potential *prevalence* become more *predicted*. However, the argument does not constitute a sufficient support to proclaim that food-processing companies will use it as a flavor additive and thus decrease the number of headaches. Because the companies could rather use another cheaper and more savored chemical as flavor additives, we cannot confirm that continued use of salicylates is **a reasonable choice for those companies**.

In summary, the argument is flawed and therefore unconvincing. It can be considerably improved if the author clearly mentions all relevant facts. In an attempt to assess the merits of a certain situation, it is essential to include more unbiased contributing factors.