[Hire the hackers!](https://www.ted.com/talks/misha_glenny_hire_the_hackers?referrer=playlist-who_are_the_hackers&language=en)

Now this is a very un-TED-like thing to do, but let's kick off the afternoon with a message from a mystery sponsor. 

Anonymous: Dear Fox News, it has come to our unfortunate attention that both the name and nature of Anonymous has been **ravaged**. We are everyone. We are no one. We are anonymous. We are legion. We do not forgive. We do not forget. We are but the base of chaos. 
	+ ravage
		> 嚴重傷害 |Cause severe and extensive damage to.| the hurricane ravaged southern Florida
		> 蹂躪 |The destructive effects of something.| his face had withstood the ravages of time
		> 破壞 |Acts of destruction.| the ravages committed by man

Misha Glenny: Anonymous, ladies and gentlemen -- a sophisticated group of politically motivated hackers who have emerged in 2011. And they're pretty scary. You never know when they're going to attack next, who or what the consequences will be. But interestingly, they have a sense of humor. These guys hacked into Fox News' Twitter account to announce President Obama's assassination. Now you can imagine the panic that would have generated in the newsroom at Fox. "What do we do now? **Put on a black armband**, or crack open the champagne?" (Laughter) And of course, who could escape the **irony** of a member of **Rupert Murdoch's News Corp.** being a victim of hacking for a change. 
	- armband
		> 臂章/袖標 |a piece of material that a person wears around the arm as a sign of something, for example an official position|
		> 充氣臂圈/救生臂環 |a hollow, ring-shaped piece of plastic filled with air, that people who are learning to swim wear on their arms in water to help them float|
	- black armband == In Western culture, a black armband signifies that the wearer is in mourning or wishes to identify with the commemoration of a family friend, comrade or team member who has died. 
	? who could escape the **irony** of a member of **Rupert Murdoch's News Corp**. being a victim of hacking for a change.  誰會放過輪到媒體大亨梅鐸新聞集團旗下的公司被駭這個天大的諷刺呢 
	- Rupert Murdoch 魯柏·梅鐸，生於澳洲墨爾本，現居美國，全球首屈一指的新聞媒體大亨，現任新聞集團持有14%股份和39.4%的投票權與21世紀福斯公司董事長與最大股東

Sometimes you turn on the news and you say, "Is there anyone left to hack?" Sony Playstation Network -- done, the government of Turkey -- tick, Britain's Serious Organized Crime Agency -- a breeze, the CIA -- *falling off a log*. In fact, a friend of mine from the security industry told me the other day that there are two types of companies in the world: those that know they've been hacked, and those that don't. I mean three companies providing cybersecurity services to the FBI have been hacked. Is nothing **sacred** anymore, *for heaven's sake*? 
	- Serious Organised Crime Agency (SOCA) 嚴重及有組織犯罪調查局，為英國以情報為主導的執法機關，負責防止、偵緝及打擊英國的嚴重罪行
	- breeze /briːz/ 
		> 微風 |A gentle wind.|
		> 輕而易舉的事 |A thing that is easy to do or accomplish.| travelling through London was a breeze
		> 飄然而行 |Come or go in a casual or light-hearted manner.| Roger breezed into her office
		> 輕易地通過 |Deal with something with apparently casual ease.| Milan had breezed through their first defence of the European Cup
		> |Small cinders mixed with sand and cement to make breeze blocks.|
	- (as) easy as falling off a log 非常輕鬆 = (as) easy as pie/ABC/anything == extremely easy
	- sacred /ˈseɪkrɪd/ 
		> 神的 |Connected with God or a god or dedicated to a religious purpose and so deserving veneration.| sacred rites
		> 宗教的 |Religious rather than secular.| sacred music
		> 神聖的 |(of writing or text) embodying the laws or doctrines of a religion.| a sacred Hindu text
		> 莊嚴的 |Regarded with great respect and reverence by a particular religion, group, or individual.| cows are sacred and the eating of beef is taboo
		> 不可侵犯的 |Regarded as too valuable to be interfered with; sacrosanct.| a profit-oriented public to whom nothing is sacred
	- for heaven's sake 看在上帝的份上 == an expression used to show anger, surprise etc

Anyway, this mysterious group Anonymous -- and they would say this themselves -- they are providing a service by demonstrating how useless companies are at protecting our data. But there is also a very serious aspect to Anonymous -- they are ideologically driven. They claim that they are battling a **dastardly** conspiracy. They say that governments are trying to take over the Internet and control it, and that they, Anonymous, are the **authentic** voice of resistance -- be it against Middle Eastern **dictatorships**, against global media corporations, or against intelligence agencies, or whoever it is. And their politics are not entirely unattractive. Okay, they're a little **inchoate**. There's a strong **whiff** of **half-baked** **anarchism** about them. But one thing is true: we are at the beginning of a mighty struggle for control of the Internet. The Web links everything, and very soon it will mediate most human activity. Because the Internet has fashioned a new and complicated environment for an old-age dilemma that pits the demands of security with the desire for freedom. 
	- dastardly /ˈdastədli/ 邪惡的/惡劣的 == Wicked and cruel
	- dictatorship /dɪkˈteɪtəʃɪp/ 
		> 獨裁政府 |Government by a dictator.| the effects of forty years of dictatorship
		> 獨裁國家 |A country governed by a dictator.|
		> 專政 |Absolute authority in any sphere.|
	? There's a strong **whiff** of **half-baked** **anarchism** about them. 感覺起來像有些類似無政府主義的味道在裏面 
	- half-baked
		> 考慮不周全的 |Not fully thought through; lacking a sound basis.| a half-baked conspiracy theory
		> 愚蠢的 |Foolish.| a half-baked hippie chick
	- anarchism  無政府主義
	? Because the Internet has fashioned a new and complicated environment for an old-age dilemma that pits the demands of security with the desire for freedom. 爲網路給一存在已久的兩難困境，帶來更新更複雜的背景條件，這個進退兩難的困境就是，我們對安全的需求和同時對自由的渴望 

Now this is a very complicated struggle. And unfortunately, for mortals like you and me, we probably can't understand it very well. Nonetheless, in an unexpected attack of **hubris** a couple of years ago, I decided I would try and do that. And I sort of get it. These were the various things that I was looking at as I was trying to understand it. But in order to try and explain the whole thing, I would need another 18 minutes or so to do it, so you're just going to have to take it on trust from me on this occasion, and let me assure you that all of these issues are involved in cybersecurity and control of the Internet one way or the other, but in a configuration that even Stephen Hawking would probably have difficulty trying to get his head around. So there you are. And as you see, in the middle, there is our old friend, the hacker. The hacker is absolutely central to many of the political, social and economic issues affecting the Net. And so I thought to myself, "Well, these are the guys who I want to talk to." And what do you know, nobody else does talk to the hackers. They're completely anonymous, as it were. 
	- hubris /ˈhjuːbrɪs/ 傲慢自大 == Excessive pride or self-confidence.
	? you're just going to have to take it on trust from me on this occasion 所以今天你只好相信我在這裡所講的
	- take sth on trust 無條件相信 == to believe that something one has been told is true or correct even though one does not have proof of it
		> I don't know anything about cars so I had to take the mechanic's recommendations on trust.
	? in a configuration that even Stephen Hawking would probably have difficulty trying to get his head around 其範圍之大 連史蒂芬霍金教授 都恐怕有困難來全盤了解
	- can't get your head around sth 無法了解 == If you say that you can't get your head around something, you mean that you cannot understand it
		> I just can't get my head around these tax forms.

So despite the fact that we are beginning to pour billions, hundreds of billions of dollars, into cybersecurity -- for the most extraordinary technical solutions -- no one wants to talk to these guys, the hackers, who are doing everything. Instead, we prefer these really **dazzling** technological solutions, which cost a huge amount of money. And so nothing is going into the hackers. Well, I say nothing, but actually there is one **teeny weeny** little research unit in Turin, Italy called the Hackers Profiling Project. And they are doing some fantastic research into the characteristics, into the abilities and the socialization of hackers. But because they're a U.N. operation, maybe that's why governments and corporations are not that interested in them. Because it's a U.N. operation, of course, it lacks funding. But I think they're doing very important work. Because where we have a **surfeit** of technology in the cybersecurity industry, we have a definite lack of -- call me old-fashioned -- human intelligence. 
	- dazzling /ˈdazlɪŋ/ 
	- teeny weeny 非常小的 == tiny
	- surfeit /ˈsəːfɪt/ 

Now, so far I've mentioned the hackers Anonymous who are a politically motivated hacking group. Of course, the criminal justice system treats them as common *old garden criminals*. But interestingly, Anonymous does not make use of its hacked information for financial gain. But what about the real cybercriminals? Well real organized crime on the Internet goes back about 10 years when a group of gifted **Ukrainian** hackers developed a website, which led to the industrialization of cybercrime. Welcome to the now forgotten realm of CarderPlanet. This is how they were advertising themselves a decade ago on the Net. Now CarderPlanet was very interesting. Cybercriminals would go there to buy and sell stolen credit card details, to exchange information about new malware that was out there. And remember, this is a time when we're seeing for the first time so-called *off-the-shelf malware*. This is ready for use, *out-of-the-box* stuff, which you can deploy even if you're not a terribly sophisticated hacker. 
	? Of course, the criminal justice system treats them as common *old garden criminals* 當然犯罪司法系統 把他們當一般的犯人來看
	- Ukrainian /juːˈkreɪnɪən/ (n)烏克蘭人/烏克蘭語 (adj)烏克蘭的/烏克蘭人的/烏克蘭語的
	- off-the-shelf 現成的 == If you buy something off the shelf, you buy something that is not specially made for you.
	- out-of-the-box 開箱即用，在軟體上指產品在安裝後，無需配置或修改，即可使用的功能或特性

And so CarderPlanet became a sort of supermarket for cybercriminals. And its creators were incredibly smart and **entrepreneurial**, because they were faced with one enormous challenge as cybercriminals. And that challenge is: How do you do business, how do you trust somebody on the Web who you want to do business with when you know that they're a criminal? (Laughter) It's **axiomatic** that they're **dodgy**, and they're going to want to try and rip you off. So the family, as the inner core of CarderPlanet was known, came up with this brilliant idea called the **escrow** system. They appointed an officer who would mediate between the vendor and the purchaser. The vendor, say, had stolen credit card details; the purchaser wanted to get a hold of them. The purchaser would send the administrative officer some dollars digitally, and the vendor would sell the stolen credit card details. And the officer would then verify if the stolen credit card worked. And if they did, he then passed on the money to the vendor and the stolen credit card details to the purchaser. And it was this which completely revolutionized cybercrime on the Web. And after that, it just went wild. We had a champagne decade for people who we know as **Carders**. 
	- entrepreneurial /ˌɒntrəprəˈnəːrɪəl/
	+ axiomatic /ˌaksɪəˈmatɪk/ 
		> 不需證明的/不言自明的 |Self-evident or unquestionable.|
		> 公理的 |Relating to or containing axioms.|
	- dodgy /ˈdɒdʒi/ 
		> 危險的 |Potentially dangerous.| activities like these could be dodgy for your heart
		> 品質不好的 |Of low quality.| Spurs' dodgy defence had thrown away a 2-0 lead
	- escrow /ˈɛskrəʊ/ 
		> 附帶條件委付蓋印契約 |A bond, deed, or other document kept in the custody of a third party and taking effect only when a specified condition has been fulfilled.|
		> |A deposit or fund held in trust or as a security.| an escrow account
		> 暫由第三方保管 |The state of being kept in custody or trust until a specified condition has been fulfilled.| the board holds funds in escrow
		> 暫由第三方保管 |Place in custody or trust until a specified condition has been fulfilled.| those funds are escrowed for the purpose of improving municipal services
	? We had a champagne decade for people who we know as **Carders**. 對卡友星球的成員來説接下來的十年是天天開香檳 

Now I spoke to one of these Carders who we'll call RedBrigade -- although that wasn't even his proper nickname -- but I promised I wouldn't reveal who he was. And he explained to me how in 2003 and 2004 he would go on **sprees** in New York, taking out $10,000 from an ATM here, $30,000 from an ATM there, using **cloned** credit cards. He was making, on average a week, $150,000 -- tax free of course. And he said that he had so much money stashed in his upper-East side apartment at one point that he just didn't know what to do with it and actually fell into a depression. But that's a slightly different story, which I won't go into now. Now the interesting thing about RedBrigade is that he wasn't an advanced hacker. He sort of understood the technology, and he realized that security was very important if you were going to be a Carder, but he didn't spend his days and nights *bent over* a computer, eating pizza, drinking coke and that sort of thing. He was out there on the town having a fab time enjoying the high life. 
	- spree /spriː/ 
		> 嬉戲 |A spell or sustained period of unrestrained activity of a particular kind.| 
		> 狂飲作樂 |A spell of unrestrained drinking.|
		> 狂飲作樂 |Take part in a spree.|
	- bend over 彎腰

And this is because hackers are only one element in a cybercriminal enterprise. And often they're the most vulnerable element of all. And I want to explain this to you by introducing you to six characters who I met while I was doing this research. Dimitry Golubov, aka SCRIPT -- born in **Odessa**, Ukraine in 1982. Now he developed his social and **moral compass** on the Black Sea port during the 1990s. This was a **sink-or-swim** environment where involvement in criminal or corrupt activities was entirely necessary if you wanted to survive. As an accomplished computer user, what Dimitry did was to transfer the **gangster** **capitalism** of his hometown onto the Worldwide Web. And he did a great job in it. You have to understand though that from his ninth birthday, the only environment he knew was **gangsterism**. He knew no other way of making a living and making money. 
	? Now he developed his social and moral compass on the Black Sea port during the 1990s 在1990年代他在這黑海港都的生活 養成了他人生的社會和道德觀
	- moral compass 道德羅盤 == a natural feeling that makes people know what is right and wrong and how they should behave
		> Some people believe that the increase in crime shows that society is losing its moral compass.
	- sink-or-swim 成敗全憑自己 == fail or succeed entirely by one's own efforts.
	- gangster 犯罪集團成員 == A member of a gang of violent criminals.
	- gangsterism 集團犯罪
	- capitalism 資本主義 == An economic and political system in which a country's trade and industry are controlled by private owners for profit, rather than by the state.

Then we have Renukanth Subramaniam, aka JiLsi -- founder of DarkMarket, born in Colombo, **Sri Lanka**. As an eight year-old, he and his parents fled the Sri Lankan capital because **Singhalese** **mobs** were roaming the city, looking for Tamils like Renu to murder. At 11, he was interrogated by the Sri Lankan military, accused of being a terrorist, and his parents sent him on his own to Britain as a refugee seeking political asylum. At 13, with only little English and being bullied at school, he escaped into a world of computers where he showed great technical ability, but he was soon being seduced by people on the Internet. He was convicted of **mortgage** and credit card **fraud**, and he will be released from *Wormwood Scrubs jail* in London in 2012. 
	- Sri Lanka 斯里蘭卡，1972年之前稱錫蘭，是一個位於南亞－印度次大陸東南方外海的島國，屬於亞洲
	? he and his parents fled the Sri Lankan capital because **Singhalese** **mobs** were roaming the city, looking for Tamils like Renu to murder. 他和他的爸媽逃離了斯里蘭卡的首都 因爲斯里蘭卡的黑幫在首都肆虐 他們在追殺長得像塔米爾人的Renu
	- Singhalese, Sinhalese (n)錫蘭人/僧伽羅人, 僧伽羅語(斯里蘭卡的官方語言之一) (adj)僧伽羅人的, 僧伽羅語的
	- mob
		> 一夥 |A large crowd of people, especially one that is disorderly and intent on causing trouble or violence.| a mob of protesters
		> 普通人民 |The ordinary people.| the age-old fear that the mob may organize to destroy the last vestiges of civilized life
		> 犯罪集團 |The Mafia or a similar criminal organization.|
		> 成群襲擊 |Crowd round (someone) or into (a place) in an unruly way.| he was mobbed by autograph hunters
		> 成群襲擊 |(of a group of birds or mammals) surround and attack (a predator or other source of threat) in order to drive it off.| a cuckoo flew over, to be mobbed at once by two reed warblers
	- Tamils 泰米爾人，由一群使用泰米爾語的人所組成，為南亞民族之一。主要分布在印度的坦米爾那德邦、安得拉邦和喀拉拉邦，以及斯里蘭卡的東部和北部地區
	- mortgage /ˈmɔːɡɪdʒ/ 
	- fraud /frɔːd/ 

Matrix001, who was an administrator at DarkMarket. Born in Southern Germany to a stable and well-respected middle class family, his obsession with gaming as a teenager led him to hacking. And he was soon controlling huge servers around the world where he stored his games that he had cracked and **pirated**. His slide into criminality was **incremental**. And when he finally woke up to his situation and understood the implications, he was already in too deep. 

Max Vision, aka ICEMAN -- mastermind of CardersMarket. Born in Meridian, **Idaho**. Max Vision was one of the best **penetration testers** working out of Santa Clara, California in the late 90s for private companies and voluntarily for the FBI. Now in the late 1990s, he discovered a vulnerability on all U.S. government networks, and he went in and patched it up -- because this included nuclear research facilities -- sparing the American government a huge security embarrassment. But also, because he was an **inveterate** hacker, he left a tiny digital wormhole through which he alone could crawl. But this was spotted by an eagle-eye investigator, and he was convicted. At his open prison, he came under the influence of financial **fraudsters**, and those financial fraudsters persuaded him to work for them on his release. And this man with a **planetary-sized** brain is now serving a 13-year sentence in California. 
	- Idaho 愛達荷州，美國西北方的一個州，州首府是波夕，美國郵政縮寫是ID
	- penetration test 滲透測試，是指一個具備資安知識與經驗、技術人員受僱主所託，為僱主的網路裝置、主機，類比駭客的手法對網路或主機進行攻擊測試，為的是發掘系統漏洞、並提出改善方法，通常是出於善意。
	- inveterate /ɪnˈvɛt(ə)rət/ 
		> 積習已深的 |Having a particular habit, activity, or interest that is long-established and unlikely to change.|
		> 根深蒂固的 |(of a feeling or habit) long-established and unlikely to change.| his inveterate hostility to what he considered to be the ‘reactionary’ powers
	- fraudster 詐騙份子 == A person who commits fraud, especially in business dealings.

Adewale Taiwo, aka FreddyBB -- master bank account cracker from **Abuja** in **Nigeria**. He set up his **prosaically** entitled newsgroup, bankfrauds@yahoo.co.uk before arriving in Britain in 2005 to take a Masters in chemical engineering at Manchester University. He impressed in the private sector, developing chemical applications for the oil industry while **simultaneously** running a worldwide bank and credit card fraud operation that was worth millions until his arrest in 2008. 
	- Nigeria 奈及利亞，是西非國家，位於非洲的幾內亞灣西岸頂點，全非洲人口最多的國家，全世界人口第七多的國家
	? He set up his **prosaically** entitled newsgroup, bankfrauds@yahoo.co.uk 他成立了這個名字平凡無奇的新聞組 bankfrauds@yahoo.co.uk
	- simultaneously /ˌsɪmlˈteɪnɪəsli/ 同時地 == At the same time.

And then finally, Cagatay Evyapan, aka Cha0 -- one of the most remarkable hackers ever, from Ankara in Turkey. He combined the tremendous skills of a geek with the **suave** social engineering skills of the master criminal. One of the smartest people I've ever met. He also had the most effective *virtual private network security arrangement* the police have ever encountered amongst global cybercriminals. 
	- suave /swɑːv/ 有禮貌的/溫文爾雅的 == (especially of a man) charming, confident, and elegant.
	? virtual private network security arrangement 私人虛擬網路 
	- virtual private network == VPN

Now the important thing about all of these people is they share certain characteristics despite the fact that they come from very different environments. They are all people who learned their hacking skills in their early to **mid-teens**. They are all people who demonstrate advanced ability in maths and the sciences. Remember that, when they developed those hacking skills, their **moral compass** had not yet developed. And most of them, with the exception of SCRIPT and Cha0, they did not demonstrate any real social skills in the outside world -- only on the Web. 

And the other thing is the high incidence of hackers like these who have characteristics which are consistent with **Asperger's syndrome**. Now I discussed this with Professor Simon Baron-Cohen who's the professor of developmental **psychopathology** at Cambridge. And he has done **path-breaking** work on **autism** and confirmed, also for the authorities here, that Gary McKinnon -- who is wanted by the United States for hacking into the Pentagon -- suffers from Asperger's and a **secondary condition** of depression. And Baron-Cohen explained that certain disabilities can manifest themselves in the hacking and computing world as tremendous skills, and that we should not be throwing in jail people who have such disabilities and skills because they have lost their way socially or been duped. 
	- Asperger syndromes 亞斯伯格症候群，其重要特徵是社交與非言語交際的困難，同時伴隨著興趣狹隘及重複特定行為，但相較於其他泛自閉症障礙，仍相對保有語言及認知發展。通常亞斯伯格症患者的智力正常，有許多人智商偏高，具有某些方面的天賦，極少數的人屬於高智商。但患者經常出現肢體笨拙和語言表達方式異常等狀況
	- psychopathology /ˌsʌɪkəʊpəˈθɒlədʒi/ 
		> 精神病理學 |The scientific study of mental disorders.| Wharton's autobiography ranks high in the annals of psychopathology
		> |Features of people's mental health considered collectively.| ageism, family discord, and psychopathology all play their part in abuse
		> 精神錯 |Mental or behavioural disorder.| she showed evidence of genuine psychopathology
	- path-breaking 創新的 == pioneering; innovative.
	- autism /ˈɔːtɪz(ə)m/ 自閉症
	- secondary condition of depression 第二級憂鬱症

Now I think we're missing a trick here, because I don't think people like Max Vision should be in jail. And let me be blunt about this. In China, in Russia and in loads of other countries that are developing cyber-offensive capabilities, this is exactly what they are doing. They are recruiting hackers both before and after they become involved in criminal and industrial espionage activities -- are *mobilizing* them on behalf of the state. We need to engage and find ways of offering guidance to these young people, because they are a remarkable *breed*. And if we rely, as we do at the moment, solely on the criminal justice system and the threat of **punitive** sentences, we will be nurturing a monster we cannot tame. 
	- mobilize
		> 動員 |(of a country or its government) prepare and organize (troops) for active service.| the government mobilized regular forces, reservists, and militia
		> 動員 |Organize and encourage (a group of people) to take collective action in pursuit of a particular objective.| it would be hard for worker representatives to mobilize the workforce against the employers
		> 調度 |Bring (resources) into use for a particular purpose.| at sea we will mobilize any amount of resources to undertake a rescue
		> 使可動 |Make (something) movable or capable of movement.| the physiotherapist might mobilize the patient's shoulder girdle
		> 使流通 |Make (a substance) able to be transported by or as a liquid.| acid rain mobilizes the aluminium in forest soils
	- breed
		> 生殖 |(of animals) mate and then produce offspring.| toads are said to return to the pond of their birth to breed
		> 使繁殖 |Cause (an animal) to produce offspring, especially in a controlled and organized way.| bitches may not be bred from more than once a year
		> 繁殖 |Develop (a variety of animal or plant) for a particular purpose or quality.| these horses are bred for this sport
		> 培育/教養 |Rear and train (someone) to behave in a particular way.| Theodora had been beautifully bred
		> 引起/產生 |Produce or lead to (something) over a period of time.| success had bred a certain arrogance
		> 核增殖 |Create (fissile material) by nuclear reaction.|
		> 品種 |A stock of animals or plants within a species having a distinctive appearance and typically having been developed by deliberate selection.| the big continental breeds are eagerly being imported by British farmers
		> 種類/類型 |A sort or kind of person or thing.| a new breed of entrepreneurs was brought into being
	- punitive
		> 懲罰性的 |Inflicting or intended as punishment.| he called for punitive measures against the Eastern bloc
		> 高昂的 |(of a tax or other charge) extremely high.| a current punitive interest rate of 31.3 per cent

Thank you very much for listening. 

Chris Anderson: So your idea worth spreading is hire hackers. How would someone get over that kind of fear that the hacker they hire might preserve that little **teensy** wormhole? 
	- teensy /ˈtiːnzi/ == teeny == Tiny

MG: I think to an extent, you have to understand that it's axiomatic among hackers that they do that. They're just relentless and obsessive about what they do. But all of the people who I've spoken to who have fallen foul of the law, they have all said, "Please, please give us a chance to work in the legitimate industry. We just never knew how to get there, what we were doing. We want to work with you." 

Chris Anderson: Okay, well that makes sense. Thanks a lot Misha.