[Why good hackers make good citizens](https://www.ted.com/talks/catherine_bracy_why_good_hackers_make_good_citizens?referrer=playlist-who_are_the_hackers&language=en)

I'm going to talk about hackers. And the image that comes to your mind when I say that word is probably not of *Benjamin Franklin*, but I'm going to explain to you why it should be. 
	- Benjamin Franklin 班傑明·富蘭克林，出生於美國麻省波士頓，美國博學家、開國元勛之一。他是傑出的政治家、外交家、科學家、發明家，同時亦是出版商、印刷商、記者、作家、慈善家、共濟會的成員。作為科學家，他因電學發現和理論成為美國啟蒙時代和物理學史上重要人物。作為發明家，他因避雷針、雙目眼鏡、富蘭克林壁爐等聞名。

The image that comes to your mind is probably more likely of a **pasty** kid sitting in a basement doing something **mischievous**, or of a shady criminal who is trying to steal your identity, or of an international **rogue** with a political *agenda*. And mainstream culture has kind of fed this idea that hackers are people that we should be afraid of. 
	- pasty /ˈpeɪsti/ 
		> 蒼白的 |(of a person's face) unhealthily pale.| a pasty complexion
		> 麵糊的/麵糊狀的 |Of or like paste.| a pasty mixture
	- rogue /rəʊɡ/ 
		> 惡棍/流氓 |A dishonest or unprincipled man.| you are a rogue and an embezzler
		> 搗蛋鬼/調皮鬼 |A person whose behaviour one disapproves of but who is nonetheless likeable or attractive.| Cenzo, you old rogue!
		> 兇猛的離群獸 |An elephant or other large wild animal living apart from the herd and having savage or destructive tendencies.| a rogue elephant
		> 異常的人或事物 |A person or thing that behaves in an aberrant or unpredictable way, typically with damaging or dangerous effects.| he hacked into data and ran rogue programs
		> 劣種 |A seedling or plant deviating from the standard variety.|
		> 去劣/去雜 |Remove inferior or defective plants or seedlings from (a crop)| the sowing has to be rogued to remove aberrant seedlings
	- agenda
		> 待議諸事項 |A list of items to be discussed at a formal meeting.| the question of nuclear weapons had been removed from the agenda
		> 待辦事項 |A plan of things to be done or problems to be addressed.| he vowed to put jobs at the top of his agenda
		> 意圖/目的 |The underlying intentions or motives of a particular person or group.| Miller has his own agenda and it has nothing to do with football
		> |An appointment diary.|

But like most things in technology and the technology world, hacking has equal power for good as it has for evil. For every hacker that's trying to steal your identity there's one that's building a tool that will help you find your **loved ones** after a disaster or to monitor environmental quality after an *oil spill*. Hacking is really just any *amateur innovation* on an existing system, and it is a deeply democratic activity. It's about critical thinking. It's about questioning existing ways of doing things. It's the idea that if you see a problem, you work to fix it, and not just complain about it. And in many ways, hacking is what built America. *Betsy Ross* was a hacker. *The Underground Railroad* was a brilliant hack. And from the Wright brothers to Steve Jobs, hacking has always been at the foundation of American democracy. 
	- oil spill 漏油事件，是一種因人類活動而導致石油、柴油等油污洩漏的意外
	- Betsy Ross 貝特西·羅斯，被美國公眾廣泛認作美國國旗的首位製作者，但缺乏足夠的檔案記載以佐證這一觀點
	- The Underground Railroad 另類歷史小說，講述了19世紀美國東南部的兩個奴隸Cora和Caesar的故事，他們通過跟隨地下鐵路來爭取他們的喬治亞種植園的自由，該小說描述的主要是鐵路運輸系統除了一系列安全的房屋和秘密路線。

So if there's one thing I want to leave you here with today, it's that the next time you think about who a hacker is, you think not of this guy but of this guy, Benjamin Franklin, who was one of the greatest hackers of all time. He was one of America's most **prolific** inventors, though he famously never filed a patent, because he thought that all human knowledge should be freely available. He brought us **bifocals** and the *lightning rod*, and of course there was his **collaboration** on the invention of American democracy. 
	+ prolific
	- bifocals 雙光眼鏡，是具有兩種不同光學能力的眼鏡
	- lightning rod 避雷針

And in Code For America, we really try to embody the spirit of Ben Franklin. He was a **tinkerer** and a statesman whose conception of **citizenship** was always *predicated on action*. He believed that government could be built by the people, and we call those people civic hackers. 
	? He was a **tinkerer** and a statesman whose conception of **citizenship** was always predicated on action 他是一位政治家和發明家， 他對公民身份的概念 總是建立在行動上面
	- tinkerer 工匠
	- citizenship 公民權 == The position or status of being a citizen of a particular country.

So it's no wonder that the values that **underly** a healthy democracy, like collaboration and empowerment and participation and enterprise, are the same values that underly the Internet. And so it's no surprise that many hackers are turning their attention to the problem of government. 
	+ underlie -> underlying
		> 在下面 |(especially of a layer of rock or soil) lie or be situated under (something)| limestone underlies much of the site
		> 源自於/是...的基礎 |Be the cause or basis of (something)| the fundamental issue which underlies the conflict

But before I give you a few examples of what civic hacking looks like, I want to make clear that you don't have to be a programmer to be a civic hacker. You just have to believe that you can bring a 21st-century tool set to bear on the problems that government faces. And we hear all the time from our community of civic hackers at Code for America that they didn't understand how much nontechnical work actually went into civic hacking projects. So keep that in mind. All of you are potential civic hackers. 

So what does civic hacking look like? Our team last year in Honolulu, which in this case was three full-time fellows who were doing a year of public service, were asked by the city to rebuild the website. And it's a massive thing of tens of thousands of pages which just wasn't going to be possible in the few months that they had. So instead, they decided to build a **parallel** site that better **conformed** to how citizens actually want to interact with information on a city website. They're looking for answers to questions, and they want to take action when they're done, which is really hard to do from a site that looks like this. So our team built Honolulu Answers, which is a super-simple search interface where you enter a search term or a question and get back plain language answers that drive a user towards action. Now the site itself was easy enough to build, but the team was faced with the challenge of how they *populate* all of the content. It would have taken the three of them a very long time, especially given that none of them are actually from Honolulu. And so they did something that's really radical, when you think about how government is used to working. They asked citizens to write the content. So you've heard of a hack-a-thon. They held a write-a-thon, where on one Saturday afternoon -- ("What do I do about wild pigs being a nuisance?") (Laughter) — Wild pigs are a huge problem in Honolulu, apparently. In one Saturday afternoon, they were able to populate most of the content for most of the frequently asked questions, but more importantly than that, they created a new way for citizens to participate in their government. 
	- parallel /ˈparəlɛl/ 
	- conform
		> 遵照/遵守 |Comply with rules, standards, or laws.| the kitchen does not conform to hygiene regulations
		> 遵從傳統或標準行動 |(of a person) behave according to socially acceptable conventions or standards.| the pressure to conform
		> 使符合 |Be similar in form or type; agree.| the countryside should conform to a certain idea of the picturesque
	- populate
		> 組成人口 |Form the population of (a place)| the island is populated by scarcely 40,000 people
		> 居住於/移民於 |Cause people to settle in (a place).|
		> 充滿 |Fill or be present in (a place or sphere)| the film is an epic fantasy populated by grotesque weirdos
		> 填入 |Fill in (data).|

Now, I think this is a really cool story *in and of itself*, but it gets more awesome. On the National Day of Civic Hacking this past June in Oakland, where I live, the Code For America team in Oakland took the open source code base of Honolulu Answers and turned it into Oakland Answers, and again we held a write-a-thon where we took the most frequently asked questions and had citizens write the answers to them, and I got into the act. I authored this answer, and a few others. And I'm trying to this day to articulate the sense of empowerment and responsibility that I feel for the place that I live based simply on this small act of participation. And by **stitching** together my small act with the thousands of other small acts of participation that we're enabling through civic hacking, we think we can **reenergize** **citizenship** and restore trust in government. 
	- in and of itself == by itself, without considering any other factors.
	? I'm trying to this day to articulate the sense of empowerment and responsibility that I feel for the place that I live based simply on this small act of participation. 我試圖讓這一天傳遞出我生活的地方所賦予的權力和責任，這些都建構在這種小型活動的參與度上
	- stitch /stɪtʃ/ 
		> 縫合線 |A loop of thread or yarn resulting from a single pass or movement of the needle in sewing, knitting, or crocheting.|
		> 一針 |A loop of thread used to join the edges of a wound or surgical incision.| he had to have sixteen stitches to his head
		> 針法 |A method of sewing, knitting, or crocheting producing a particular pattern or design.| basic embroidery stitches
		> 一塊布 |The smallest item of clothing.| nymphs with come-hither looks and not a stitch on
		> 跑步後肋部的劇痛 |A sudden sharp pain in the side of the body, caused by strenuous exercise.| he was panting and had a stitch
		> 縫紉/編結 |Make, mend, or join (something) with stitches.| stitch a plain seam with right sides together

At this point, you may be wondering what city officials think of all this. They actually love it. As most of you guys know, cities are being asked every day to *do more with less*, and they're always looking for innovative solutions to **entrenched** problems. So when you give citizens a way to participate beyond attending a town hall meeting, cities can actually capture the capacity in their communities to do the business of government. 
	- do more with less 事半功倍 == be (more) productive or creative with less money or resources. 

Now I don't want to leave the impression that civic hacking is just an American phenomenon. It's happening across the globe, and one of my favorite examples is from Mexico City, where earlier this year, the Mexico House of Representatives entered into a contract with a software development firm to build an app that **legislators** would use to track bills. So this was just for the handful of legislators in the House. And the contract was a two-year contract for 9.3 million dollars. Now a lot of people were really angry about this, especially geeks who knew that 9.3 million dollars was an absolutely outrageous amount of money for what was a very simple app. But instead of *taking to the streets*, they issued a challenge. They asked programmers in Mexico to build something better and cheaper, and they offered a prize of 9,300 dollars -- 10,000 times cheaper than the government contract, and they gave the **entrants** 10 days. And in those 10 days, they submitted 173 apps, five of which were presented to Congress and are still in the app store today. And because of this action, that contract was **vacated**, and now this has sparked a movement in Mexico City which is home to one of our partners, Code for Mexico City. 
	- legislator 立法員 == A person who makes laws; a member of a legislative body.
	* take to the streets 走上街頭/抗爭/示威 == To gather together in the public streets of a town or city to show communal solidarity in either celebration or opposition.
	- entrant /ˈɛntr(ə)nt/ 
		> 新成員/新職員 |a person who becomes a member of a group or organization| new entrants to the school/company
		> 參賽者/考生 |a person who takes part in a competition or an exam| All entrants complete two three-hour papers.
		> 首次銷售某種產品的公司 |a company that starts selling a particular product or service, or selling in a particular place, for the first time| As a recent entrant to the Japanese market, the company is at a disadvantage compared to Japanese suppliers.
	- vacate
		> 搬空 |Leave (a place that one previously occupied)| rooms must be vacated by noon on the last day of your holiday’
		> 放棄 |Give up (a position or employment)| he vacated his office as Director
		> 取消/使無效 |Cancel or annul (a judgement, contract, or charge)| ‘the Justices vacated a ruling by the federal appeals court

And so what you see in all three of these places, in Honolulu and in Oakland and in Mexico City, are the elements that are at the core of civic hacking. It's citizens who saw things that could be working better and they decided to fix them, and through that work, they're creating a 21st-century ecosystem of participation. They're creating a whole new set of ways for citizens to be involved, besides voting or signing a petition or protesting. They can actually build government. 

So back to our friend Ben Franklin, who, one of his lesser-known accomplishments was that in 1736 he founded the first volunteer firefighting company in Philadelphia, called a **brigade**. And it's because he and his friends noticed that the city was having trouble keeping up with all the fires that were happening in the city, so in true civic hacker fashion, they built a solution. 
	- brigade /brɪˈɡeɪd/ 
		> 旅 |A subdivision of an army, typically consisting of a small number of infantry battalions and/or other units and forming part of a division.| he commanded a brigade of 3,000 men
		> 隊/團 |An organization with a military or quasi-military structure.| a volunteer ambulance brigade
		> 隊/團 |A group of people with a characteristic in common.| the anti-smoking brigade
		>  把……編成旅 |Form into a brigade.| the militia, which was brigaded with regular formations to improve its training
		> 與...有關連 |Associate with (someone or something)| they thought the speech too closely brigaded with illegal action

And we have our own brigades at Code for America working on the projects that I've just described, and we want to ask you to follow in Ben Franklin's footsteps and come join us. We have 31 brigades in the U.S. We are pleased to announce today that we're opening up the brigade to international cities for the first time, starting with cities in Poland and Japan and Ireland. You can find out if there's a brigade where you live at brigade.codeforamerica.org, and if there's not a brigade where you live, we will help you. We've created a tool kit which also lives at brigade.codeforamerica.org, and we will support you along the way. Our goal is to create a global network of civic hackers who are innovating on the existing system in order to build tools that will solve entrenched problems, that will support local government, and that will empower citizens. 

So please come hack with us. 