## Essay
Some people argue as if it is a general truth that people behave well only in very few things since they are too busy. As far as I am concerned, I agree with the statement. Some reasons justifies why I can the busy has become a major issue of contemporaries, and I would explore only a few of the most important ones here.

To begin with, technology seems to enhance the efficiency of people that still have mental limitation. Admittedly, technology help people to achieve many works, but however not every works could be attained by technology. Taking my work experience as example, I work as an programmer who find the problems, search high and low for the solutions, and test the result. Internet become the essential part of my work time in which I search many problems on websites like Google or Stackoverflow, a website that programmers post their questions and others would submit some answers. This method hugely have an positive impact on my efficiency. However, there are still lots of load to finish like adjusting the code to fit requirement more precisely or integrating the solution in to original program more perfectly. However, with some requirement becoming urgent, the other part of works become less significant than searching for an answer. Afterwards, the whole program become more confusing and more problems emerge from scratch. That is to say, even though some kind of tasks become more easier, arduous section of work still remain unaltered.

Secondly, pressure makes people to act unexpectedly. Nowadays, many works which all require disparate ability and knowledge have appeared.  For example, suddenly somebody asks you to wash dishes, throw trashes, clean toilet and then cook dinner. How you behave if there is one hour left to complete this household tasks? Most of people arrange their time according to the complexity of task and which are the easiest one. While you can complete a few tasks at beginning, with the passage of time you will find that some tasks are more complicated than you thought; and then, you baffle yourself and mess other tasks up. In other words, like the modern people that have many knowledge to learn, the people will eventually load too much burden to absolutely terminate every aspects.

Taking into account of all factors, we may reach the conclusion that the overburden lead cause people to complete only few things well , which is due half to the existence of mental limitation and half to various works appearing nowadays.

## Reviewed
*It is a highly debated issue* that people behave well only in very few things since they are too busy. As far as I am concerned, I agree with the statement. Some reasons justifies why I think *busyness* has become a major issue of contemporaries, and I would explore only a few of the most important ones here.

To begin with, technology seems to enhance the efficiency of people that still have mental limitation. Admittedly, technology help people to achieve many works, but however not every works could be attained by technology. Taking my work experience as example, I work as an programmer who find *problems*, search high and low for the solutions, and test the result. Internet become the essential part of my work time in which I search many *answers* on websites like Google or *Stack Overflow*, a website that programmers post their questions and others would submit some answers. This method hugely have an positive impact on my efficiency. However, there are still lots of load to finish like adjusting the code to fit requirement more precisely or integrating the solution in to original program more perfectly. However, with some requirement becoming urgent, the other part of works become less significant than searching for an answer. Afterwards, the whole program become more confusing and more problems emerge from scratch. That is to say, even though some kind of tasks become more easier, arduous section of work still remain unaltered *and occupy the major part of a stint*.

Secondly, pressure makes people to act unexpectedly. Nowadays, many works which all require disparate *abilities* and knowledge have appeared *and thus they contribute to considerable time spent on comprehending them.* For example, suddenly somebody asks you to wash dishes, throw trashes, clean toilet and then cook dinner. How you behave if there is one hour left to complete this household tasks? Most of people arrange their time according to the complexity of task and which are the easiest one. While you can complete a few tasks at beginning, with the passage of time you will find that some tasks are more complicated than you thought; and then, you baffle yourself and **mess other tasks up**. In other words, like the modern people that have many knowledge to learn, the people will eventually load too much burden to absolutely *attend to* every aspects.

Taking into account of all factors, we may reach the conclusion that *an excess of* works cause people to *accomplish* only few things well, which is due half to the existence of mental limitation and half to heterogenous works and knowledge appearing nowadays. Given the elements, superfluous activities, in part, impede success of people.

## Topic
Do you agree or disagree with the following statement?
Because people are busy doing so many different things, they do very few things well.
Use specific reasons and examples to support your answer.