## Essay
Some people argue as if it is a general truth that television advertising should be restricted to be directed towards kids who are between age two and five. To be frank, I can not agree with the idea. Some reasons justifies the reasons why I oppose the restriction, I would explore a few of the most important reasons here.

To begin with, a obvious and legal methods which strictly regulate who can watch television and advertisements doesn't exist. Some people may think that young children don't have any remarkable ability to thinking what they saw, and hence the children only notice the advertisement's funny part which attract children to acquire those things. Thus, the ultimate resolution is to stop their watching. For example, parents can unplug the television, monitor the children's behavior every day and night, or discard their television in home. In a sense, these methods ineffectively reach the aim. On the other hand, can they stop taking their children to go shopping in which advertisement still exist. That is to say, none of ways actually cut the connection between children and advertising. Whether advertising have a negative effect on children only depends on the education from their parents and the environment, which is more pragmatic than prevent children from watching television advertising.

Secondly, television advertising doesn't only corrupt their pure mind but also boost their socializing progress. Given the fact that advertiser don't realize who are actually watch television, even the television programs that specialize in children doesn't contain the advertisements which are directed towards children. On occasion, parents accompanies with their children to enjoy the time of television programs. Taking my childhood as instance, I always watched television that included lots of advertisements such as toys, games, beverages, detergents, and even bank deposit. From those advertisements, I understood that some detergents are *poisonous* and can't be contacted directly by hands as well as that by using deposit we collect interest. Without those promotion, I could harm myself with those toxic detergents by accident. 

Taking into account of all these factors, we may reach the conclusion which is reasonable to direct television advertising towards young children. It is due half to the fact that children are not the only watcher of the advertisement and half to the effect of improving children's socialization.

## Review
Some people argue as if it is a general truth that television advertising should be restricted *not* to be directed towards kids who are between age two and five. To be frank, I can not agree with the idea. Some reasons justifies the reasons why I oppose the restriction, I would explore a few of the most important reasons here.

To begin with, *an* obvious and legal methods which strictly regulate who can watch television and advertisements doesn't exist. Some people may think that young children don't have any remarkable ability to thinking what they saw, and hence the children only notice the advertisement's funny part which attract children to acquire those things. *To avoid the reprimands, advertiser could declare that their products are for adults and the advertisement likewise aim at adults.* Thus, the ultimate resolution is to stop children's watching. For example, parents can unplug the television, monitor the children's behavior every day and night, or discard their television in home. In a sense, these methods ineffectively reach the target. On the other hand, can they stop taking their children to go shopping in which advertisement still exist. That is to say, none of ways actually cut the connection between children and advertising. Whether advertising have a negative effect on children only depends on the education from their parents and the environment, which is more pragmatic than prevent children from watching television advertising.

Secondly, television advertising doesn't only corrupt their pure mind but also boost their socializing progress. Given the fact that advertiser don't realize who are actually *watching* television, even the television programs that specialize in children doesn't *completely* contain the advertisements which are directed towards children. On occasion, parents *accompanies their children* to enjoy the time of television programs. Taking my childhood as instance, I always watched television that included lots of advertisements such as toys, games, beverages, detergents, and even bank deposit. From those advertisements, I understood that some detergents are *poisonous* and can't be contacted directly by hands as well as that by using deposit we collect interest. Without those promotion, I could harm myself with those toxic detergents by accident. 

Taking into account of all these factors, we may reach the conclusion that television advertising directed towards  young children is acceptable. It is due half to the fact that children are not the only watcher of the advertisement and half to the effect of improving children's socialization.

## Vocab
- stop 阻止 == prevent == avoid == check == hold back == interrupt == suspend == bar 
- target 目標 == objective == purpose == intention == aim == goal
- completely 完全地 == absolutely == comprehensively == perfectly == ultimately == utterly == wholly

## Topic
Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? 
Television advertising directed towards young children (aged two to five) should not be allowed.
Use specific reasons and examples to support your answer.