## Argument
Paleo diets, in which one eats how early hominids (human ancestors) did, are becoming increasingly popular. Proponents claim our bodies evolved to eat these types of food, especially bone broth, a soup made by cooking animal bones for several hours. They believe it has many health-promoting nutrients, such as cartilage, which can heal our joints, and chondroitin, which promotes nerve regeneration. Skeptics point out that ingested cartilage can’t replenish cartilage in your knees or elbows and ingested chondroitin doesn’t make our brains any healthier. **Yet, there is strong anecdotal evidence that people who consume bone broth have fewer metabolic and inflammatory diseases than those who don’t.** Therefore, **ancient humans knew something about our physiology that we don’t**, and that by emulating the way they ate, we can cure many chronic illnesses.

## Direction 
Write a response in which you examine the stated and/or unstated assumptions of the argument. Be sure to explain how the argument depends on these assumptions and what the implications are for the argument if the assumptions prove unwarranted.

## 30mins
In this argument, the author maintains that ancient human owned the knowledge about physiology that modern people do not reazlie. Hence, when people try paleo diets, they can not obtain same effect as the ancient human did. To justify the conclusion, the argument points out the opinions and perspective of the proponents and the skeptics, which may seem specious at first glance. Nevertheless, this argument fails to be completely compelling as it stands, for it contains an array of unwarranted assumptions and due to the wanting of necessary evidence.

First of all, the author aussme that supporter's opinion is reasonable - human actually evolved to adapt to the kinds of food that paleo diet requires. This statement is a stretch and not substainted in any way, though this not entirely impossible. It is much like that the animals can absorb the same food if one kind of living being can survive by digesting the food. Threre are numerous examples that rebuke this perspective. For instance, according to some reseachs, the animals living on land was evolved and transformed from the lives in ocean. As the same logic, we can assume that human can maintain necessary nutrition from planktion that is the main source of whales' food. In order to strength this argument, the author should provide more credibe evidence and have to rule out other possible alternative explanations.

What is more, the argument concludes that the skeptcs's point of view, which provide some doubt of causing inflammatory disease by the paleo diets,  is justifiable as well. Specifically, this is again a very weak and unsupported claim as the arguemt doesn't supply any scientific or validated proof. In fact, common inflammatory diseases could be bourght about by many reasons such as bacteria infection which is due to the lack of cleaning of animal bones as the soup ingredients. If the argument provided evidence that specific type of inflammatory disease could happen only by digestion of the paleo diet iteself, the argument could have been strengthed even further.

Finally, the argument premise that human ancestor really intake paleo diets. Admitted, this is true especially when it comes to some historical residues has been found and preserved intactly. In addition, if paleo diet is the only nutrition that early hominids have, it can be explained that why the author suggest that modern human  lack some knowledge that their ancestor had. 

## Complete  [43min]
In this argument, the author maintains that ancient human owned the knowledge about physiology that modern people do not realize. Hence, when people try paleo diets, they can not obtain same effect as the ancient human did. To justify the conclusion, the argument points out the opinions and perspective of the proponents and the skeptics, which may seem specious at first glance. Nevertheless, this argument fails to be completely compelling as it stands, for it contains an array of unwarranted assumptions and due to the wanting of necessary evidences.

First of all, the author assume that supporter's opinion is reasonable - human actually evolved to adapt to the kinds of food that paleo diet requires. This statement is a stretch and not substainted in any way, though this not entirely impossible. It is much like that the animals can absorb the same food if one kind of living being can survive by digesting the food. There are numerous examples that rebuke this perspective. For instance, according to some reseachs, the animals living on land was evolved and transformed from the lives in ocean. As the same logic, we can assume that human can maintain necessary nutrition from planktion that is the main source of whales' food. In order to strength this argument, the author should provide more credibe evidence and have to rule out other possible alternative explanations.

What is more, the argument concludes that the skeptcs's point of view, which provide some doubt of causing inflammatory disease by the paleo diets, is justifiable as well. Specifically, this is again a very weak and unsupported claim as the arguemt doesn't supply any scientific or validated proof. In fact, common inflammatory diseases could be bourght about by many reasons such as bacteria infection which is due to the lack of cleaning of animal bones as the soup ingredients. If the argument provided evidence that specific type of inflammatory disease could happen only by digestion of the paleo diet iteself, the argument could have been strengthed even further.

Finally, the argument premise that human ancestor really intake paleo diets. Admittedly, this is true especially when it comes to some historical residues has been found and preserved intactly. In addition, if paleo diet is the only nutrition that early hominids have, it can be explained that why the author suggest that modern human veraciously lack some knowledge that their ancestor had. However, the above argument does not constitute a sufficient support to claim that beneificent effect exist in paleo diets that were used by hominids. Because the author fail to provide necessary information such as the composition of paleo diet that existed at past instead of being realized by modern society, we can not reach the conclusion that the author claims.

In summary, the argument is flawed and therefore unconvincing. It could be considerably strengthed if the author clear mention all the relevant facts. In order to assess the merits of a certain situation, it is essential to have full evidences of all contributing factors.

## Rewrite
In this argument, the author maintains that ancient human owned the knowledge *of* physiology that modern people do not realize. Hence, **when people try paleo diets, they can obtain same effect as the ancient human did.** To justify the conclusion, the argument points out the opinions and perspective of the proponents and the skeptics, which may seem specious at first glance. Nevertheless, this argument fails to be completely compelling as it stands, for it contains an array of unwarranted assumptions and due to the wanting of necessary evidences.

First of all, the author assume that *supporters*' opinion is reasonable - *indeed* human evolved to adapt to the kinds of food that paleo diet requires. This statement is a stretch and not *substantiated* in any way, though this not entirely impossible. It is much like that the animals can absorb the same food if one kind *assuming that* living being can survive by digesting the *feed*. There are numerous examples that *defy* this perspective. For instance, according to some *researches*, the animals living on land *~~was~~* evolved and transformed from lives of ocean. As the same logic, we can *assert* that human can maintain necessary nutrition from *plankton* that is the main source of whales' food. In order to strength this argument, the author should provide more credible *evidence* and have to rule out other possible alternative explanations.

What is more, the argument concludes that the *skeptics'* point of view, which provide some doubt *on the salutary influence of taking bone broth*, is *unacceptable* **since it is said that people who follow paleo diets have fewer metabolic and inflammatory diseases.** Specifically, this is again a very weak and unsupported claim as the argument doesn't supply any scientific or validated proof. In fact, common inflammatory diseases could be *brought* about by many reasons such as healthy status **or personal hygiene habits**. **Furthermore, despite the *decline in* the possibility of fewer metabolic and inflammatory diseases, the author does not explicate that other disease -- which may occur after thirty or forty years -- could not happen as the ingestion of cartilage.** If the argument provided evidence that **were obtained by operating a few strict medical experiments**, the argument could have been strengthened even further.

Finally, the argument premise that human ancestor really intake paleo diets. Admittedly, this is true especially when it comes to some historical residues has been found and preserved intactly. In addition, if paleo diet is the only nutrition on which early hominids mainly relied, it can be explained that why the author suggest that modern human *veritably* lack some knowledge that their ancestor had. However, the above argument does not constitute a sufficient support to claim that *beneficial* effect exist in paleo diets that were used by hominids. Because the author fail to provide necessary information, *traces of paleo diet in ancient history and* *what* the composition of paleo diet that existed at past instead of being realized by modern society *is*, we can not reach the conclusion that the author *maintains*.

In summary, the argument is flawed and therefore unconvincing. It could be considerably strengthened if the author clear mention all the relevant facts. In order to assess the merits of a certain situation, it is essential to have full *details* of all contributing factors.