## Essay
It is a highly debated issue that people should realize various events around the world even if they do not have any impact on their life. As far as I am concerned,  I agree with the statement. Some reasons justifies why I think knowing various things is eventually beneficial, and I would explore only a few of the most important ones here.

To begin with, people will face the challenges that they have never experience before. It is hard to estimate that which events causes the corresponding significant cases in the future such as the Depression that was seldom foretold before it impacted the lives of people. For example, at my previous job part of my job is to develop some consumer in China. Additionally, I have never been the place before the difficult challenge. However, I actually learned some history about China, and I sometimes browse some news about the place. Afterwards, I handle with the mission successfully with arduous effort and spending less time than my boss had estimated. On the other words, there is no futile knowledge which is just not needed for a moment. From a long-term perspective, various knowledge and perception to a variety of events happening around the world finally become the key of resolving challenges; thus; people can have more preparation to face the dilemma that hit in the future.

Secondly, unrelated events sometimes interplay with the other events that people have known. As people understand the events happening on the other countries, some unseen knots emerge. For instance, if you do not understand the political situation of other countries, how you do realize the tendency of economy or the possible threatening from the other continents? To be specific, if know that a government is eager to surveil people's private information, would you still buy the products manufactured by company willingly cooperating with the government. Namely, when people realize more events and more condition, they sooner or later perceive that many events are actually connected within a relationship that you have not recognized before. Put simply, people think some events have nothing to do with their life since they do not know the indication of those events.

Taking into accounts of all these factors, we may reach the conclusion that it is rare that we obtain or hear useless information, which is due half to possible challenges in the future which can not predicted by most of people and half to hidden relation among events which are ignored by the virtue of rigid concept of people. Given the elements, I personally suggest that people should more deeply realize the event occuring around the world while the relationship of the events still remain unknown for now.

## Reviewed
It is a highly debated issue that people should realize various events around the world even if they do not have any impact on people's life. As far as I am concerned,  I agree with the statement. Some reasons justifies why I think knowing various things is eventually beneficial, and I would explore only a few of the most important ones here.

To begin with, people will *someday* face the challenges that they have never experience before. It is hard to estimate that which events causes the corresponding significant cases in the future such as the Depression that was seldom *foreseen* before it impacted the lives of people. For example, at my previous job part of my job was to develop some *consumers* in China. Additionally, I have never been the place before the difficult challenge. However, I actually learned some history about China at school, and I sometimes browse some news about the place. Afterwards, I *handled* with the mission successfully with *less* effort and spending less time than my boss had estimated. On the other words, there is no futile knowledge which is just not needed for a moment. From a long-term perspective, various knowledge and perception to a variety of events happening around the world finally become the key of resolving challenges; thus people can have more preparation to face the dilemma that hit in the future.

Secondly, unrelated events sometimes interplay with the other events that people have known. As people understand the events happening on the other countries, some unseen knots emerge. For instance, if you do not understand the political situation of other countries, how you do realize the tendency of economy or the possible threatening from the other continents? To be specific, if you know that a government is eager to surveil people's private information, would you still buy the products manufactured by a company willingly cooperating with the government *that broadcast the product into another nations.* Namely, when people realize more events and more *conditions*, they sooner or later perceive that many events are actually connected within a relationship that *they* have not recognized before. Put simply, people think some events have nothing to do with their life since they do not know the indication of those events.

Taking into accounts of all these factors, we may reach the conclusion that it is rare that we obtain or hear useless information, which is due half to possible challenges in the future which can not predicted by most of people and half to hidden relation among events which are ignored by the virtue of prejudice of people. Given the elements, I personally suggest that people should more deeply realize the events occurring around the world while the relationship of the events still remain unknown *temporarily*.

## Topic
Do you agree or disagree with the following statement?

It is important to know about events happening around the world, even if it is unlikely that they will affect your daily life.

Use specific reasons and examples to support your answer.