## Topic
The following appeared in a letter to the editor of a Batavia newspaper.

"The department of agriculture in Batavia reports that the number of dairy farms throughout the country is now 25 percent greater than it was 10 years ago. During this same time period, however, the price of milk at the local Excello Food Market has increased from $1.50 to over $3.00 per gallon. To prevent farmers from continuing to receive excessive profits on an apparently increased supply of milk, the Batavia government should begin to regulate retail milk prices. Such regulation is necessary to ensure fair prices for consumers."

Write a response in which you discuss what questions would need to be answered in order to decide whether the recommendation is likely to have the predicted result. Be sure to explain how the answers to these questions would help to evaluate the recommendation.

## 30min
Regarding the issue, the author of the argument concludes that the government should enact some laws regulating the milk price in Batavia to protect its consumers. To justify the conclusion, the author points out the number of dairy farms increased within the ten years, but, be that as it may, the price of milk also sugred by at least a hundred percent, which may seem the avarice of the farmers. Nevertheless, the arugment fails to be completely compelling as it stands for it contains a wide array of unwarranted assumptions, by virtue of the lack of impregnable evidences.

First of all, the author simply assumes that the milk productivity must increase due to the increament in the number of dairy in Batavia. The assertion is a stretch and not substantiated in any way, though it is not entirely preposterous. It is much likely that, even though the number of dairy farms increase, the composition of the farm changed. There are numberous examples that could warrant why the overall milk productivity decreased with the ten years. For instance, during this ten years, the import and export business in Batavia have burgeoned. To earn more profit to maintain the farm, the farms in Batavia have also started to create other kinds of crops such as grape or chicken for food, which is more popular products abroad. In order to reinforce the argument, the author must furnish more credible evidences and have to account for and rule out this and other possible explanations.

What is more the author claims that the milk price at the local Excello Food Market hugely increased; thus, the author suggests that the surged price bright tremendous profit for the farmers. Specifically, the argument is again a very weak and misleading claim as the argument did not supplement any detail about the milk price at other location in Batavia. In fact, the price of commodites at the Excello Food Market could commesurately increase at least a hundred percent, which denotes that there could be inflation in Batavia; thereby, it justify the increment in the milk price. If the author provided the evidences about the price of other products in Batavia, the argument could have been strengthened even further.

Finally, the author premises that the farmers must gain excessive profit by the milk price explosion. Admittedly, this is true especially when it comes to the fact that only price of milk in Batavia surged - but the other products' price remain steady within the ten years. In addition, if the salary of people in Batavia keep as the same level as of ten years ago, the farmers must intentionally increased the milk price to earn pocket. However, the argument does not constitute a sufficient backing to proclaim that the overall economical level in Batavia is identical as the past. Because the price of marketing, tax, and logistics could also surged, we can not deduce that the farmers must earn more revenue than of the past.

In summary, the argument is flawed and therefore unconvincing. The argument could be considerably improved if the author clearly mentions all relevant facts. In an attempt to assess the merits of a certain siuation, is is essential to include more unbiased contributin factors.

## Review
Regarding the issue, the author of the argument concludes that the government should enact some laws regulating the milk price in Batavia to protect its consumers. To justify the conclusion, the author points out the number of dairy farms increased within the ten years, but, be that as it may, the price of milk also *surged* by at least a hundred percent, which may seem the avarice of the farmers. Nevertheless, the *argument* fails to be completely compelling as it stands for it contains a wide array of unwarranted assumptions, by virtue of the lack of impregnable evidences.

First of all, the author simply assumes that the milk productivity must increase due to the *increment* in the number of dairy *farms* in Batavia. The assertion is a stretch and not substantiated in any way, though it is not entirely preposterous. It is much likely that, even though the number of dairy farms *expand*, the composition of the farm changed. There are *numerous* examples that could warrant why the overall milk productivity decreased *within* the ten years. For instance, during this ten years, the import and export business in Batavia have burgeoned. To earn more profit to maintain the farm, the farms in Batavia have also started to *cultivate* other kinds of crops such as grape or *domesticate* chicken for food, which is more popular products abroad. In order to reinforce the argument, the author must furnish more credible evidences and have to account for and rule out this and other possible explanations.

What is more the author claims that the milk price at the local Excello Food Market hugely increased; thus, the author suggests that the *heightened* price *brings* tremendous profit *to* the farmers. Specifically, the argument is again a very weak and misleading claim as the argument did not supplement any detail about the milk price at other location in Batavia. In fact, the price of *commodities* at the Excello Food Market could *commensurately* heighten as well at least a hundred percent, which denotes that there could be inflation in Batavia; thereby, it justify the increment in the milk price. If the author provided the evidences about the price of other products in Batavia, the argument could have been strengthened even further.

Finally, the author premises that the farmers must gain excessive profit by explosion of the milk price. Admittedly, this is true especially when it comes to the fact that only price of milk in Batavia surged - but the other products' price remain steady within the ten years. In addition, if the salary of people in Batavia keep as the same level as of ten years ago, the farmers must intentionally increased the milk price to earn pocket. However, the argument does not constitute a sufficient backing to proclaim that the overall economical level in Batavia is identical as the past. Because the price of marketing, tax, and logistics could also surged, we can not deduce that the farmers must earn more revenue than of the past.

In summary, the argument is flawed and therefore unconvincing. The argument could be considerably improved if the author clearly mentions all relevant facts. In an attempt to assess the merits of a certain situation, is is essential to include more unbiased contributing factors.