## Topic
The following appeared in a memo from the Board of Directors of Butler Manufacturing.

"During the past year, workers at Butler Manufacturing reported 30 percent more on-the-job accidents than workers at nearby Panoply Industries, where the work shifts are one hour shorter than ours. A recent government study reports that fatigue and sleep deprivation among workers are significant contributing factors in many on-the-job accidents. Therefore, we recommend that Butler Manufacturing shorten each of its work shifts by one hour. Shorter shifts will allow Butler to improve its safety record by ensuring that its employees are adequately rested."

Write a response in which you discuss what questions would need to be answered in order to decide whether the recommendation is likely to have the predicted result. Be sure to explain how the answers to these questions would help to evaluate the recommendation.

## 30min
Regarding the issue, the author of the argument concludes by lessening the working hours at Butler Manufacturing it could effectively reduce the possibility of on-the-job accidents there. To justify the conclusion, the author points out that nearby Panoply Industries, which having shorter working shifts by one hour, has lower on-the-job accidents and government report also indicated that fatigue is the main reason for the type of accident, which may seem plausible at fist glance. Nevertheless, the argument fails to be completely compelling as it stands, for it contains a wide array of unwarranted assumption, due to the lack of impregenable evidences.

First of all, the author assumes that long working hours is the main reasons that Butler Manufacturing happend on-the-job accidents more than the other company. The assertion is a stretch and not substantiated in any way, though it is not entirely preposterous. It is much likely that other crucial factors effect the accidents in their company. There are numerous examples that could directly, or indirectly, cause the high number of the accidents. For instance, Butler Manufacturing was establish 50 years ago, and its equipment is not maintained or replaced with new servicable ones. On the other hand, Panoply Industries just recently substituted their tools, which operates more smoothly and unerringly than the old ones. Therefore, those decrepited instruments at Butler Manufacturing lead to the high number of the accidents. To reinfore the argument, the author needs to furnish more credible evidence and rule out and account for this or other possible explanations.

What is more, the author claims that the recent government study precisely expaitated the problem at Butler Manufacturing; thus, the author suggests that the long working hours must be the cause of their on-the-job accidents. Specifically, this is again a very weak and misleading claim as the argument did not describe the exact situation of on-the-job accidents at Butler Manufacturing. In fact, the study just summarize the general reason casuing the accidents through the whole country. Moreover, problems occuring at Butler Manufacturing could be an outlier in the report since its reasons causing the on-the-job accidents is seldom seen at other corporations. 

Finally, the author premises that lessening the shifts could resolve the current problem at Butler Manufacturing. It is true especially when it comes to workers at Butler Manufacturing and ones at Panoply Industries have similar working environment. In addition, there is an study that seemly corborates the solution. However, the said argument does not provide any sufficient support to proclaim that increment in the rest time of employee of Butler Manufacturing could decrease the possiblity of their high rate of accidents. Because those two companys might not have any similar working environment and equipment, we can not conclude that ensureing the rest of its workers could improve its safety record.

In summary, the argument is flawed and therefore unconvincing. In an attemp to assess a merit of a certain situation, it is essential to provide more unbiased contributing factors.

## Review
Regarding the issue, the author of the argument concludes by lessening the working hours at Butler Manufacturing it could effectively reduce the possibility of on-the-job accidents there. To justify the conclusion, the author points out that nearby Panoply Industries, which having shorter working shifts by one hour, has lower on-the-job accidents and government report also indicated that fatigue is the main reason for the type of accident, which may seem plausible at fist glance. Nevertheless, the argument fails to be completely compelling as it stands, for it contains a wide array of unwarranted *assumptions* **by virtue of** the lack of *impregnable* evidences.

First of all, the author assumes that long working hours is the main *reason* that Butler Manufacturing *happened*  on-the-job accidents more than *another* company, Panoply Industries. The assertion is a stretch and not substantiated in any way, though it is not entirely preposterous. It is much likely that other crucial factors effect the accidents in their company. There are numerous examples that could directly, or indirectly, cause the high number of the accidents. For instance, Butler Manufacturing was establish 50 years ago, and its equipment *has not been* maintained or replaced with *new serviceable* ones. On the other hand, Panoply Industries just recently substituted their tools, which operates more smoothly and unerringly than the old ones. Therefore, those *decrepit* instruments at Butler Manufacturing lead to the high number of the accidents. **In order to** *reinforce* the argument, the author **should** furnish more credible *evidences* and **have to** rule out and account for this or other possible explanations.

What is more, the author claims that the recent government study precisely *expatiated* the problem at Butler Manufacturing; thus, the author suggests that the long working hours must be the cause of their on-the-job accidents. Specifically, this is again a very weak and misleading claim as the argument did not describe the exact situation of on-the-job accidents at Butler Manufacturing. In fact, the study just *summarized* the general reason *bringing about* the accidents through the whole country. Moreover, problems *existing* at Butler Manufacturing could be an outlier in the report since its reasons causing the on-the-job accidents is seldom *observed* at other corporations. **If the argument provided information that expands those on-the-job accidents at Butler Manufacturing, including the status of its employee and whole company, it could have been strengthened even further.**

Finally, the author premises that lessening the shifts could resolve the current problem at Butler Manufacturing. It is true especially when it comes to workers at Butler Manufacturing and ones at Panoply Industries have similar working environment, **which implies that the working duration is the only difference between them.** In addition, there is an study that seemly *corroborates* the solution. However, the said argument does not constitute a sufficient support to proclaim that increment in the rest time of employee of Butler Manufacturing could decrease the potential to have an on-the-job accident. Because those two *companies* might not have any similar working environment and equipment, we can not confirm that the *longer* rest of its workers could improve its safety record.

In summary, the argument is flawed and therefore unconvincing. **It could be considerably improved if the author clearly mentions all relevant facts.** In an attempt to assess *the merits* of a certain situation, it is essential to provide more unbiased contributing factors.