## Topic
The following is a petition to the city council of Centerville:

"Over the past three years, there has been a marked increase in cases of 'sidewalk rage,' similar to the irrational anger drivers experience on the road, but instead among sidewalk walkers. The result is an increase in assaults, property damage, and disruptions of normal pedestrian traffic. In order to address this growing problem, the council must ban cell phone use on sidewalks. Not only do people texting or using their phones slow down pedestrian traffic, but they are also more likely to walk into the road or bump into other walkers. Children are especially vulnerable because they are too short to be easily seen. Middletown passed such a ban and not only have they heard no complaints, but the reported incidents of sidewalk crime has gone down significantly."
Write a response in which you discuss what specific evidence is needed to evaluate the argument and explain how the evidence would weaken or strengthen the argument.

## Review

Regarding the issue, the author of the argument concludes that banning the use of cell phone on the sidewalks effectively improve the *awful* condition of the past three years. To justify this conclusion, the author points out that the complaint was similar with the driver's case, and, *after* the *enactment* of the law, not only the grumble *vanish* but the occurrence of crime also diminishes. **Nevertheless, this argument fails to be completely compelling as it stands, for it contains a wide array of unwarranted assumptions, due to the lack of relevant information and proofs.**

First of all, the author simply *assumes* that the kind of rage the is mostly equivalent to the case of the irrational anger drivers. This assertion is a stretch and not substantiated in any way, though this is not entirely preposterous. It is much likely that other potential factors cause the anger of the people using sidewalks. There are *numerous* examples that *could lead* to the fury of the **pedestrians** rather than the same reason infuriating the drivers. For instance, **the pedestrians consist of various types of walkers, even including cyclists whose passage on road or sidewalk is not mentioned in the passage. Those riding on bicycles usually bring about the inconvenience of who move on foot since the design of current sidewalk is faulty for encompassing vehicles and walkers** In order to reinforce this argument, the author should furnish more credible evidences and have to rule out and account for other possible alternative explanations.

What is more, the argument claims that banning the the cell phone using on sidewalks *actually* *ameliorate* the situation of sidewalks according to the report from the middletown; thus, it proposes that habit of using cell phone on sidewalks must be the cause of surging complaint. Specifically, this is again a very weak and misleading claim as the argument fail to provide further information about the complaints. In fact, ***the decline in* the number of protest, at worst, derives from the decrement in the population of walking on sidewalk - because they can not operate the cell phone which is the necessary behavior for their lives or works.** If the argument provides the evidence that details the content of the past complaints and the sentiment of the current users, the argument could have been strengthened even further.

Finally, the argument premises that cell phone using on sidewalk was main reason of complaint. *Admittedly*, this is true especially when it comes to the majority of complaints was from the people disturbed by those who *inadvertently* bump **others** or encumber the traffic **on sidewalk**. In *addition*, the ban seemly resolve the problem *in light of* no more new complaint coming. However, the said argument does not constitute a sufficient backing to the claim that people using cell phone was definitely the root of those *dissatisfaction*. Because the complaint may not absolutely regards to the cell phone and the disappearance of complaint may not contribute to the ban, **the author does not supply appropriate evidence that maintains the argument.**

In summary, the argument is flawed and therefore unconvincing. It could be considerably improved if the author clearly mention all the *relevant* facts. In an attempt to assess the merits of a certain situation, it is essential to include more unbiased and convincing contributing factors.
