## Topic
The following was written by a group of developers in the city of Monroe.

"A jazz music club in Monroe would be a tremendously profitable enterprise. At present, the nearest jazz club is over 60 miles away from Monroe; thus, our proposed club, the C Note, would have the local market all to itself. In addition, there is ample evidence of the popularity of jazz in Monroe: over 100,000 people attended Monroe's jazz festival last summer, several well-known jazz musicians live in Monroe, and the highest-rated radio program in Monroe is 'Jazz Nightly.' Finally, a nationwide study indicates that the typical jazz fan spends close to $1,000 per year on jazz entertainment. We therefore predict that the C Note cannot help but make money."

Write a response in which you discuss what questions would need to be answered in order to decide whether the prediction and the argument on which it is based are reasonable. Be sure to explain how the answers to these questions would help to evaluate the prediction.

## 30min
Regarding to the writing, the author of the  argument concludes that their newly proposed jazz club will earn appreciable profit. To justify the conclusion, the author points out that their advantage, distance, compared to other jazz club and the jazz's popularity in Monroe, which may seem plausible at first glance. Nevertheless, the arugment fails to be completely compelling as it stands, for it contains a wide array of unwarranted assumption, due to the lack to impregnalbe evidences.

First of all, the author assumes that their jazz club have advantage of distance, which was mentioned that the nearest club near Monroe is, at least, 60 miles away. The assertaion is a stretch and not substantiated in any way, though it is not entirely preposterous. It is much likely that those jazz clubs not close to the center of Monroe own other vantage which can makes pepole visiting. There are numerous examples that offer better advantage than the only close distance. For instance, the other jazz club will have lower fare including entrance and food since they do not need to afford relative higher rental in the central Monroe. To reinforce the argument, the other information is required and the author have to rule out and account for this or other possible explantations.

What is more, the author claims that there were more than 100,000 people attending Monroe's jazz festival; thus, the jazz must have tremendous popularity in Monroe. Be that as it may, the is again a very weak and misleading claims as the argument did furnish the composition of those people attending jazz festival hosted in Monroe. In fact, even if the number of people attending the festival is considerably high, those people could mostly come from the other states or countries. Therefore, those people attending the festival may not become be the same kind of person who are willing to visit the new jazz club. 

Finally, the author premises that a nationwide study indicates that a typical jazz fan in the country could spend relaively high expenditure on jazz entertainment so that their new club will profit. This is true especially when it comes to the their nation is not so big enough that most of people will possibly expend some money in the club. In addition, the arguemnt mentions that Monroe's jazz festival attract lots of people. However, the argument did not consider that the study only accounts for average situation in the nation and also the people attending the festival could not be the local inhabitants

To sum up, the argument is flawed and therefore unconvincing. In order to assess the merits of a certain situation, it is essential to include unbiased contributing factors.

## 33 min
Regarding to the writing, the author of the  argument concludes that their newly proposed jazz club will earn appreciable profit. To justify the conclusion, the author points out that their advantage, distance, compared to other jazz club and the jazz's popularity in Monroe, which may seem plausible at first glance. Nevertheless, the arugment fails to be completely compelling as it stands, for it contains a wide array of unwarranted assumption, due to the lack to impregnalbe evidences.

First of all, the author assumes that their jazz club have advantage of distance, which was mentioned that the nearest club near Monroe is, at least, 60 miles away. The assertaion is a stretch and not substantiated in any way, though it is not entirely preposterous. It is much likely that those jazz clubs not close to the center of Monroe own other vantage which can makes pepole visiting. There are numerous examples that offer better advantage than the only close distance. For instance, the other jazz club will have lower fare including entrance and food since they do not need to afford relative higher rental in the central Monroe. To reinforce the argument, the other information is required and the author have to rule out and account for this or other possible explantations.

What is more, the author claims that there were more than 100,000 people attending Monroe's jazz festival; thus, the jazz must have tremendous popularity in Monroe. Be that as it may, the is again a very weak and misleading claims as the argument did furnish the composition of those people attending jazz festival hosted in Monroe. In fact, even if the number of people attending the festival is considerably high, those people could mostly come from the other states or countries. Therefore, those people attending the festival may not become be the same kind of person who will visit the new jazz club. 

Finally, the author concludes that a nationwide study indicates that a typical jazz fan in the country could spend relaively high expenditure on jazz entertainment so that their new club will profit. This is true especially when it comes to the their nation is not so big enough that most of people will possibly expend some money in the club. In addition, the arguemnt mentions that Monroe's jazz festival attract lots of people. However, the argument did not consider that the study only accounts for average situation in the nation and also the people attending the festival could not be the local inhabitants.

To sum up, the argument is flawed and therefore unconvincing. In order to assess the merits of a certain situation, it is essential to include more unbiased contributing factors.

## Review
Regarding *~~to~~* the writing, the author of the  argument concludes that their newly proposed jazz club *is ensured to* earn appreciable profit. To justify the conclusion, the author points out that their advantage, *close* distance, compared to other jazz club and the jazz's popularity in Monroe, which may seem plausible at first glance. Nevertheless, the *argument* fails to be completely compelling as it stands, for it contains a wide array of unwarranted assumption, due to the lack to impregnable evidences.

First of all, the author assumes that their jazz club have advantage of distance, which was mentioned that the nearest club near Monroe is, at least, 60 miles away. The *assertion* is a stretch and not substantiated in any way, though it is not entirely preposterous. It is much likely that those jazz clubs not close to the center of Monroe own other vantage which can **draw customer into them rather than the nearest one**. There are numerous examples that offer better *advantages* than the *closeness*. For instance, the other jazz club will have lower fare including entrance and food since they do not need to afford relative higher rental in the central Monroe. **In order to** reinforce the argument, the author should provide more credible data and have to rule out and account for this and other possible explanations.

What is more, the author claims that there were more than 100,000 people attending Monroe's jazz festival; thus, the jazz must have tremendous popularity in Monroe. Be that as it may, the is again a very weak and misleading claims as the argument did not furnish the composition of those people attending jazz festival hosted in Monroe. In fact, even if the number of people attending the festival is considerably high, those people could mostly come from other states or countries. Therefore, those people attending the festival may not become be the same kind of person who will visit the new jazz club **in that the new club seems to aim for "the local market"**. **If the argument provided evidence that clearly states the information and background of people in the jazz festival, the argument could have been strengthened even further.**

Finally, the author concludes that a nationwide study indicates that a typical jazz fan in the country could spend enormous expenditure on jazz entertainment so that their new club will profit. This is true especially when it comes to the their nation is not so big enough that most of people will possibly expend some money in the club **in Monroe**. In addition, the argument mentions that Monroe's jazz festival attract lots of people. However, the **said** argument did not **constituent a sufficient support to proclaim that the revenue from the club will be high since the study demonstrate that the ability of consumption of jazz fans is huge.** **Because the study only suggests an average situation in the nation, it is possible that the jazz fan from Monroe averagely spends only $100 and the other city does $1900  on jazz entertainment.**

To sum up, the argument is flawed and therefore unconvincing. **It could be considerably improved if the author clearly mentioned all the relevant facts.** **In an attempt to** assess the merits of a certain situation, it is essential to include more unbiased contributing factors.