## Essay
Some people argue as if it is a general truth that students working together for an assignment can learn more than working alone on projects. To be frank, I can not agree with the statement. Some reasons justifies why I think working alone benefits more than cooperation especially for an assignment, and I would explore only a few of the most important ones here.

To begin with, people frequently consciously or unconsciously rely on other who is more ardent. In fact, the most heavy burden always are carried by the only person who want to obtain a better grade or more enthusiastic. Taking my experience as example, every semester lots of classes assign at least a task in which many people involve to cooperation. Typically, some people that know each other decided to work together immediately, but however, others take a while to assemble the enough number of students. Admittedly, during the process, student can be acquainted with some students that never met before. However, in terms of results, only a person in a group will learn knowledge with the most efficiency since at most of cases only one person take up the responsibility of organizing tasks, arranging the schedule, convening others, and compiling and revising the final work. 

Secondly, work time are more easier to arrange for personal project. Every one have a unique schedule and disparate activities to attend. When combining everyone's plans, only a small period can be utilized by every one of a group.  For example, I spent three days a week to work as an internship in a company which occupy the major part of my time. As a matter of fact, holiday is viable period in which I do not have business liability to take, notwithstanding I always asked to come home which had a considerable distance from my college. Thus, my possible time slots were so limited that I usually could not find a suitable period to join the discussion of members of a group. Put simply, working alone I can spend more time on research the topic and result in a better quality .

Taking into account of all these factors, we may reach the conclusion that students may not learn more effectively when working in a group than alone, which is due half to reliance from other coworkers and half to narrow possibility of scheduling. Given the factors, working together may not be the best opinion for every one.

## Reviewed
Some people argue as if it is a general truth that students working together for an assignment can learn more than working alone on projects. To be frank, I can not agree with the statement. Some reasons justifies why I think working alone benefits more than cooperation especially for an assignment, and I would explore only a few of the most important ones here.

To begin with, people frequently consciously or unconsciously rely on other who is more ardent. In fact, the most heavy burden *are always* carried by the only person who *desires* to obtain a better grade or *is* more enthusiastic. Taking my experience as example, every semester lots of classes assign at least a task in which many people *involved* to cooperation. Typically, some people that know each other decided to work together immediately, but however, others take a while to assemble the enough number of students. Admittedly, during the process, student can be acquainted with some students that never met before. However, in terms of results, only a person in a group will learn knowledge with the most efficiency since, *in most cases*, only one person *undertakes* the responsibility of organizing tasks, arranging the schedule, convening others, and compiling and revising the final work. *In other words, working in groups is not the most efficient way for additional students depending on the responsible one.*

Secondly, work time are more easier to arrange for personal *projects* than team *assignments*. Every one have a unique schedule and disparate activities to attend, and, when combining everyone's plans, only a small period can be utilized by every one of a group *to finish the assignments.* For example, I spent three days a week to work as an internship in a company which *occupied* the major part of my time. As a matter of fact, in terms of most people, holiday is viable period in which *they* do not have business liability to take, *while* I *was* always asked to come home which had a considerable distance from my college. Thus, my possible *time slots* were so limited that I usually could not find a suitable period to join the discussion of members of a group. Put simply, *by* working alone I can spend more time on *researching* the topic and result in a better quality.

Taking into account of all these factors, we may reach the conclusion that students may not learn more effectively when working in a group than alone, which is due half to reliance from other coworkers and half to narrow possibility of scheduling. Given the factors, working together may not be the best opinion for every one.

## Topic
Do you agree or disagree with the following statement?

When teachers assign projects on which students must work together, the students learn much more effectively than when they are asked to work alone on projects.

Use specific reasons and examples to support your answer.