# General Rules of Morphology

## Plurals
* To the words that end in *-s, -z, -x, -sh, -ch, -ss, and -es*: add *-es* to the end
	* E.g. bus -> buses, buzz -> buzzes, dish -> dishes
	* **Exception:**
		* quiz -> quizzes
		* friz -> frizzes
		* whiz -> whizzes
* To the words that end in *-o*
	* Add -es to the end: potato -> potatoes, echo -> echoes, hero -> heroes
	* Add -s to the end: auto -> autos, alto -> altos, zoo -> zoos, solo -> solos
	* Some words can form the plural in either way: buffalo -> buffalos/buffaloes, cargo -> cargos/cargoes
* To the words that end in **a consonant** plus -y: ~~-y-~~ -> -ies
	* E.g. lady -> ladies, candy -> candies, penny -> pennies
* To the words that end in **a vowel** plus -y: add -s
	* E.g. joy -> joys, day -> days, buy -> buys
* To the words that en in *-f or -fe*: ~~-f/fe~~ -> -ves
	* E.g. knife -> knives, leaf -> leaves, wife -> wives, wolf -> wolves
	* **Exception:** Oaf, chef, cliff, belief, tariff, plaintiff, root, and chief. All **add -s** to form the plural.
* Irregular:
	* child -> children
	* mouse -> mice
	* foot -> feet
	* person -> people
	* tooth -> teeth
	* ox -> oxen
* Foreign words often have an irregular form, but, in some cases, both the regular and irregular are acceptable:
	* alumnus -> alumni
	* analysis -> analyses 
	* focus -> focuses/foci
	* index -> indexes/indices
* Some words are the same in singular and plural form: deer, offspring, crossroads, headquarters, cod, series
* Otherwise, add -s to the end

## Suffixes and Prefixes

* Suffix like -ed, -ing, -able, -ible, -al, -ant, -ate, -ent, -ful, -ic, -ory, -ous, -ive, -er, -or, ian, ist, -ion, -ity, -um, -ify, -ize
	* The last letter is -c whose **pronunciation is hard** and the letter before it is *e or i*: add k before the suffix
		* E.g. picnic -> picnicker, colic -> colicky, frolic -> frolicking, traffic -> trafficked
	* The last letter is -c whose **pronunciation is soft** and the letter before it is *e or i*: do nothing
		* E.g. critic -> criticism, clinic -> clinician, lyric -> lyricist 
	* The last letter is -y and the **preceding letter is consonant**: replace y with i
		* E.g. carry -> carrier, irony -> ironic, empty -> emptied 
		* The rule doesn't apply to the situation that the suffix is -ing: carry = carrying -> empty = emptying 
		* The rule doesn't apply to the situation that the -y is preceded by a vowel: delay -> delayed, enjoy -> enjoyable 
	* Compound words usually keeps the original spelling of each world: cufflink, billfold, bookcase, football, payday 

* Prefix like a?-, co?-, de, di?-, in-, im-, inter-, mis-, non-, neo-, o?-, out-, over,- pre-, pro-, per-, re-, su?-, super-, trans-, un-, under-, up-, uni-
	* Usually the root word remains unchanged, like spell -> misspell, cast -> recast, and approve -> disapprove 
	* In the following cases, a hyphen is required between a prefix and the root
		1. [Pronunciation] The last letter of the prefix and the first letter of the root word is the **same vowel**: anti-institutional
		1. [Custom] Some prefix is being added to a proper noun: mid-March
		1. [Conflict] New combined word must be distinguished from another word: re-creation (versus recreation) 

# Commonly confused words

* a, an: A is used with a consonant sound (a pig, a computer); an is used with a vowel sound (an earring, an integer). The **sound** is what makes difference. We write *"an honor"* because the h in honor is unpronounced.
* all together, altogether: All together means simultaneously or all at once; altogether means entirely or wholly. 
	* You’re altogether wrong about the six friends going all together to the dance; each is going separately. 
* among, between: Think division. If only two people are dividing something, use between ; if more than two people are involved, use among. 
	* The money was divided between Sarah and Bob; the land was divided among Billy, Henry, and Janice. 
* bad, badly: It is about how you feel, use bad. However, if you’re writing about how you did, use badly.
* can, may: If you **can** do something, you’re **physically** able to do it. If you *may* do it, you have *permission* to do it.
	* You can use a i n’t in a sentence, but you may not. 
* fewer, less: Use **fewer** to describe **plural** words; use *less* to describe *singular* words. 
* imply, infer: A speaker implies something; a listener infers something. 
* in, into: In means within; into means from the outside to the inside.
	* Go into the house, go in my purse, and bring me money. 
* that, which: For clauses that don’t need commas (restrictive clauses), use that. For nonrestrictive clauses, which need commas, use which.
	* The local dog kennels, which are on my way to work, are the ones that have been featured in the news lately. 
* who, which, that: Don’t use which when you’re writing about people. 

# Summary

* The most fatal mistakes a writer can make are misspelling and misusing words. 