# Nouns
* A noun simply gives the name of a thing, a place, or an idea.
* Nouns have the following categories (not exclusive):
	* Proper nouns: particular nouns with capitalized initial like February, February, or David.
	* Common nouns
	* Concrete nouns: things that can be seen, felt, heard, touched, or smelled.
	* Abstract nouns: concepts, beliefs, or qualities (freedom, capitalism, courage).
	* Count nouns
	* Non-count nouns: they cannot be counted and are always **singular**.
	* Collective nouns: they (like army, herd, pack, and family) are viewed as one unit and can be singular or plural.
* According to the position of the noun, it can be a subject (主詞), a predicate nominative (主格述語), or an object (受詞/賓語).

# Pronouns
* The definition is **a word that takes a place of a noun**.w
* Personal pronouns (人稱代名詞): **I/me, you, he/him, she/her, it, we/us, they/them**
* Possessive pronouns (所有格代名詞): **mine, yours, hers, his, theirs, ours**, which show ownership.
* Demonstrative pronouns (指示代名詞): ~~the~~, **this, that, these, those**, which point out particular one(s).
* Relative pronouns (關係代名詞): **who, whom, which, that, whose**, which relate one part of sentence to another.
	* The man *whom* I almost hit last night works in this shop. (Whom relates back to man.)
	* One country *that* I’d like to visit someday is France. (That relates to country.) 
* Reflexive pronouns (反身代名詞) or intensive pronouns (加強語氣代名詞): myself, yourself, himself, herself, itself, ourselves, yourselves, themselves. 
* Interrogative pronouns (疑問代名詞): who, whom, which, whose, what. 
	* What in the world was that politician talking about? 
* Indefinite pronouns (不定代名詞):
	* They include all, another, any, anybody, anyone, anything, **both**, each, **either**, everybody, everyone, everything, **few**, **many**, **most**, **much**, **neither**, no one, nobody, none, nothing, **one**, other, others, **several**, **some**, somebody, someone, and something.
	* Contrary to the word "indefinite", they sometimes refer to a definite ones that has already been mentioned in the sentence. 
		* **that all, any, more, most, none, and some** sometimes are singular and sometimes are plural. 

# Verbs
* The definition is "a word that expresses action or being"
* Action Verbs: there are two categories
	* Transitive (及物動詞): a verb that **takes an object**. If you can answer **whom? or what?** to the verb in a sentence, then the verb is transitive.
		* I carried the injured boy to the waiting ambulance.
	* Intransitive (不及物動詞)
		* Exhausted after a hard day’s work, I sank into the sofa with great delight. 
* Being Verbs (be動詞)
	* am, is, are, was, were, be, being, been.
	* has been, should have been, may be, and might be. 
* Linking/Copulative Verbs (連綴動詞)
	* These verbs include **be, appear, feel, look, remain, smell, stay, become, grow, prove, seem, sound, and taste**
	* If you can replace the linking verb in the sentence with a being verb and the sentence still makes sense, you have got yourself a linking verb.
		* (O) The soup tasted too spicy for me. 
		* (X) I tasted the spicy soup. 
* Helping/Auxiliary Verbs (助動詞)
	* They can join the main verb to express the tense, mood, and voice of the verb.
	* Common ones are **be, do, have, can, may**.
* The Principal Parts of Verbs (動詞時態)
	* There are 4 principals parts in English
		* Present Infinitive (現在不定式)
		* Present Participle (現在分詞)
			* I *was watching* The Ellen Show last night.
			* I *am studying* for the exam tomorrow. Can I call you later?
		* Past Tense (過去式)
		* Past Participle (過去分詞)
			* He *has gone* out. Would you like to leave a message?
			* Women *had already had* the right to vote by the time my grandmother was born.
			* This kindergarten said all children will *be taken* good care of.
			* Robert was scolded when he *was caught* cheating on the exam.
	* If the verb form its past *and* past participle by add **-d or -ed**, this verb is called *regular verb*; otherwise, the verb is called *irregular verb*.


# Adjective
* The definition is "a word that modifies a **noun or pronoun**."
* An adjective answer the question *which one?*, *what kind of?*, or *or how many?*.
* There are some special categories of adjectives (not exclusive):
	* Articles (冠詞): **a, an, and the**. *A and an* are called **indefinite articles** because they do not indicate anyone or anything specific; conversely, *the* is called a **definite article**.
	* Determiner (限定詞): they help to determine to which **particular units** the nouns are referring. E.g. the country, those apples, seven pencils.

# Adverb
* The definition is "a word that **modifies a verb, adjective, or other adverb**." 
* An adverb answer the question *when?*, *where?*, *how?*, *why?*, *to what extent?*, or *under what situation?*.
* Conjunctive Adverbs (連接副詞)
	* They join independent clauses into one sentence. 
	* Not every can be joined with the conjunctive adverb. There some rules:
		* You have a *complete thought on either side* of the conjunctive adverb. 
		* You put a semicolon before it and a comma after it. 
		* You’re joining two closely related thoughts. 
		* You’ve used the right conjunctive adverb. 
	* The following are common ones: accordingly, also, besides, consequently, finally, furthermore, instead, likewise, meanwhile, moreover, nevertheless, next, otherwise, still, therefore, thus 
* Intensifiers or qualifiers
	* They increase the intensity of the adjectives and other adverbs 
	* Common intensifiers are awfully, extremely, kind of, more, most, pretty, quite, rather, really, somewhat, sort of , too. 

# Conjunctions 
* The definition is a word that provides a junction between words.
* Coordinating Conjunctions (對等連接詞): **but, or, yet, so, for, and, nor**
* Correlative Conjunctions (相關連接詞): **include both/and, either/or, neither/nor, not only/also, not only/but also** which must have a "relative" nearby.
* Subordinating Conjunctions (從屬連接詞)
	* They are used in **the beginning of dependent clause** (subordinate clauses 從屬子句)
	* The most common ones are the following: after, although, as if, as in, as long as, as much as, as soon as, assuming that, because, before, even though, how, if, in order that, in that, inasmuch as, now that, once, providing that, since, so long as, so that, than, that, though, unless, until, when, whenever, where, wherever, whether, while

# Comparisons with Adjectives and Adverbs
* There are 3 different degrees of adjectives and adverbs:

	| Positive(原級) | Comparative(比較級)  | Superlative(最高級)|
	|---------------|---------------------|-------------------|
	| blue          | bluer               | bluest            |
	| dirty         | dirtier             | dirtiest          |
	| awkward       | more awkwardly      | most awkwardly    |
	| qualified     | less qualified      | least qualified   |
	| sleepy        | sleepier            | sleepiest         |
	| tiring        | more tiring         | most tiring       |
	| bad           | worse               | worst             |
	| far           | farther/further     | farthest/furthest |
	| good          | better              | best              |
	| well          | better              | best              |
	| ill           | worse               | worst             |
	| little        | littler/less/lesser | littlest/least    |
	| many          | more                | most              |
	| much          | more                | most              |
	| old (persons) | elder               | eldest            |
	| old (things)  | elder               | eldest            |

* There are some general rules to help in forming comparative and superlative
	1. For one-syllable (單音節) adjectives and adverbs, add -er to form comparative type or add -est to form superlative type.
	1. For adjectives of more than two syllables and adverbs ending in –ly, to more/less or most/least
	1. The previous rule (Rule 2) is not perfect. There are still a lot of exceptions.
	1. There are some irregular forms: bad, far, good/well, ill, little, many/much, old

* Common mistakes:
	* If you are comparing two things, you use only comparative form rather than superlative form.
	* Don't use both the -er and more or -est and most with the same noun. E.g. the most tallest statue.

# Preposition
* The definition is a word that links a noun or pronoun to another word.
* The following are the most common ones: about, above, across, after, against, along, among, around, at, *before*, behind, below, beneath, beside, between, beyond, *but*, by, concerning, despite, down, during, except, for, from, in, inside, into, like, of, off, on, onto, out, outside, over, past, since, through, throughout, to, toward, under, underneath, until, up, upon, with, within, without
* Generally, your writing does sound better if you can structure a sentence that **don’t end with a preposition**. 
	* [Writing] With whom are you going to the party? 
	* [Colloquialism] Whom are you going to the party with? 

# Interjection
* The definition is a word that express surprise or some other kind of emotion.
* Interjections often stand alone and do not have a grammatical relation to the other words in the sentence. For example, "Well, I don’t know what to say."
* When you’re expressing a strong emotion or surprise (as in Stop!), use an exclamation point; if you’re using milder emotion or merely using a filler (as in like or well ), use a comma. 
* The interjection is *barely used* in formal writing.


# Summary
* The parts of speech (詞類/詞性) provide the essential vocabulary for grammar, which consists of nouns (名詞), pronouns (代名詞), adjectives (形容詞), verbs (動詞), adverbs (副詞), comparisons (比較級), prepositions (介系詞), conjunctions (連接詞), and interjections (感嘆詞).
* What is the difference between conjunctive adverb and conjunction?