# Subjects and Predicates
* Complete Subject (大主詞) and Complete Predicate (大謂語)
	* Complete Subject is a person, a place, or a thing along with all the words that modify it.
	* Complete Predicate is what the subject is doing or what condition it is in.
	* For example, in "The aged, white-haired gentleman walked slowly down the hall", "The aged, white-haired gentleman" is the complete subject and "walked slowed down the hall" is the complete predicate.
* Simple Subject (小主詞) and Simple Predicate (小主詞)
	* Simple Subject is the main noun or pronoun, which is fundamental part of the sentence.
	* Simple Predicate is the verb in the complete predicate.
	* For example, in "The aged, white-haired gentleman and his wife walked slowly and deliberately down the hallway and then paused to speak to me.", *"gentleman and wife"* are simple subjects and *"walked and paused"* are subject predicates.
* Subjects are **never** in a prepositional phrase (See Ch3 #Phrase).
* The subject doest not always appear before the verb, taking question or inverted sentence for instance.
	* What is Amy going to do with that leftover sandwich? (is before Amy)
	* Over the hill came the soldiers, determined to destroy the fortress. 

# Complements
* There are 5 types of complements: **direct object (直接受詞)**, **object complement (受詞補語)**, **indirect object (間接受詞)**, *predicate adjective (述語形容詞)*, and *predicate nominative (述語主格)*. And, *predicate adjective* and *predicate nominative* are called as **subject complements (主詞補語)**.

* Direct Objects
	* This complement is used with a transitive verb. They can be nouns (usually), pronouns (sometimes), or noun clauses (rarely).
	* In "The little boy constantly dribbled the basketball in the outdoor playground.", the word "dribbled" is the direct object.
* Object Complements
	* This complement is used with a transitive verb. It elaborates on or gives a fuller meaning to *a direct object.* They can be nouns or adjectives.
	* In "Karen asked her friend Paulette for a ride home.", "friend" is the object complement and helps to complete the information about Paulette.
	* In "On a whim, Matthew painted his fingernails blue.", "blue" is the object complement as adjective.
* Indirect Complements
	* The complement is used with a **transitive verb** and comes before a direct object to answer the question **"to whom? or for whom?"**
	* In "Kyle reluctantly gave Linda the keys to his new car," the subject is "Kyle" and the verb is "gave". By using the formula of asking **to whom? or for whom?**, we find that "Linda" is the indirect object.
	* However, in "Kyle reluctantly gave the keys *to Linda*," Linda *is not* the indirect object.
* Subject Complements
	* Subject complement are used with **linking verbs only** (See Ch2 Linking/Copulative Verbs). They complete the subject with full information about it.
	* Predicate Adjectives: The soup tasted too *spicy* for me. 
	* Predicate Nominatives or Predicate Noun: That man over there is *DeShawn*.

# Phrase
* Phrase is a group of words that acts as a part of speech if the group doesn't contain any verb or subject.
* **Prepositional Phrase (介系詞片語)**
	* A prepositional phrase begins with a preposition and ends with a noun/pronoun. It can be used as an adjective or an adverb.
	* *Adjective phrase*: in "Several friends from my job are getting together tonight", "from my job" is the adjective phrase and describes the "friends"
	* *Adverb phrase*: in "We’ll meet at the restaurant at 8 P.M.", "at the restaurant" and "at 8 P.M." are adverb phrase and modify the verb "meet."
* **Participial Phrase (分詞片語)**: in "Fleeing from the sudden storm, many picnickers sought refuge in the shelter house at the park," "Fleeing" is a present participle (See Ch2 #Verbs) and "Fleeing from the sudden storm" makes up a participial phrase.
* **Gerund Phrase (動名詞片語)**: in "Singing the night away helped Joseph forget his troubles," "singing" is a gerund and also a subject. "Singing the night away" makes up a phrase.
* **Infinitive Phrase (不定詞片語)**: in "“To go home is my only wish right now,” sighed the tired mother after a long day of shopping with the children.", "To go" is an infinitive and acts the subject. "To go home" makes up the infinitive phrase.
* **Appositive Phrase (同位片語)**: in "My favorite book, a dog-eared copy of To Kill a Mockingbird, has accompanied me on many vacations," "copy" is the appositive that refers to "book". "a dog-eared copy of To Kill a Mockingbird" makes up the appositive phrase.

# Clauses
* Clauses are like phrase, but they have a verb and its subject.
* **Independent Clauses (獨立子句) or Main Clauses**
	* It is a group of words that contain a subject and a verb, and could stand alone as a sentence.
	* In "The cards scattered on the floor, and I had to pick them all up," "The cards scattered on the floor" and "I had to pick them all up" both have a subject and a verb, so both of them are independent clauses.
* **Subordinate Clauses (從屬子句) or Dependent Clauses**
	* It also contain a subject and a verb, but it **cannot stand alone as a sentence.** Thus, a subordinate clause must be attached to some independent clause.
	* *Adjective clauses (形容詞子句)*
		* It sometimes called *relative clause (關係子句)* because it often begins with a relative pronoun (who, whose, whom, which, that)
		* In "That man, whom I went to high school with, walked right by as if he’d never met me," "whom I went to high school with" is the adjective clause.
		* Sometimes an adjective clause omit **that** from the clause. For example, The new CD *~~that~~ I want* has not yet been released. 
	* *Noun clauses (名詞子句)*
		* It can be a subject, predicate nominative, appositive, object of a verb, or object of a preposition.
		* In "Rocky couldn’t believe what he heard at the water fountain," "what he heard at the water fountain" is the noun clause serving as a direct object.
	* *Adverb clauses (副詞子句)*
		* It is introduced by a subordinating conjunction (see Ch2 #Conjunctions), such as after, although, as, because, once, until, while, and so on.
		* In "Mr. Sylvester came to visit because he needed some company for the evening," " because he needed some company for the evening" is the adverb clause.
		* If **the adverb clause comes before the independent clause**, you must **add a comma** between them. For example, "Whenever he came to visit, Mr. Sylvester always brought a box of candy for us."
* **Restrictive Clauses (限定子句) and Nonrestrictive Clauses (非限定子句)**
	* A restrictive clause is also called an essential clause or a defining clause. It is necessary to be the basic the meaning of the sentence.
	* A nonrestrictive clause is also called a nonessential or nondefining clause. It can be eliminated from the sentence without changing the basic meaning.
	* In "The car, which was stolen last Saturday, has been found.", "which was stolen last Saturday" is not necessary to understand what the sentence says, so it is the nonrestrictive clauses. And, "The car has been found" is the restrictive clause.
	* Usually, **that** is used to introduce *restrictive clauses*, while **which** is used to introduce *nonrestrictive clauses*.

# Summary
* In English every sentence must have a **predicate (verb)**, the **subject** of the verb to make a complete sentence.
* Although you can consist a sentence only with a subject and a predicate, many other words are still needed to complete the meaning. These words are called **complements (補語)**.
* The words in sentence is not always organized by subject-verb pattern. For example, "The soldiers came over the hill, determined to destroy the fortress" can be transformed to "Over the hill came the soldiers, determined to destroy the fortress.". The later sentence is called **inverted order** that the verb come before the subject *(S+V+ADV --> ADV+V+S).
* The principal difference between a **phrase** and a **clause** is that the phrase doesn't have a subject.