# Problems with Indefinite Pronouns 
* Anyone, anybody, anything, **each**, either, **everybody**, **everyone**, **everything**, neither, nobody, none, no one, one, somebody, something, and someone are all considered to be **singular**.
	* Everybody **is** seated, and each is waiting for the plane to take off. 
	* Each of the dogs **needs** its personalized collar before it can be enrolled in dog obedience school. 
* A common tendency in everyday speech is to use **they or their** in place of some singular pronouns. Besides, **they and their** are used to be a pronoun for *trans (whose gender is neither a male nor a female)* and prevent an overuse of *his or her or he or she*.
	* *Everybody* is seated, and **they are** waiting for the plane to take off. 
	* When I came downstairs, *everybody* in the family was already eating *their* breakfast, and *everyone was* engrossed in reading *their* different sections of the newspaper. Each of *them* seemed to be in *their* own little world. 
	* When I came downstairs, everybody in the family was already eating *his or her* breakfast, and everyone was engrossed in reading *his or her* different sections of the newspaper. Each of them seemed to be in *his or her* own little world. 
	* When I came downstairs, *all of my family* members were already eating *their* breakfast. *All of them were* engrossed in reading *their* own sections of the newspaper. *They* seemed to be in *their* own little world. 
* With five pronouns **(all, any, most, none, and some)**, the “disregard the prepositional phrase” rule doesn’t apply. **Look at the object of the preposition** to determine which verb to use. 
	* *All* of the **money** **is** missing from the safe. 
	* *All* of the **cookies** **are** missing from the jar. 

# Vague Pronoun References 
1. Billy Joe invited Darrell to the ranch because **he** enjoyed horseback riding. 
	* Whom does the word he in the second part of the sentence refer to — Billy Joe or Darrell? The antecedent of he isn’t clear. 
	* Rewrote:
		* Because **Darrell** enjoyed horseback riding, Billy Joe invited **him** to the ranch. 
		* **Billy Joe, who enjoyed horseback riding**, invited Darrell to the ranch. 
1. Karen was afraid **he** would not remember to pick up the refreshments for the party. 
	* Who is he? Unless the man has been identified in an earlier sentence, the reader is left out in the cold about his identity. 
1. The young recording star was elated, but he kept **it** hidden. 
	* What did the star keep hidden? Was it supposed to refer to the fact that he felt elated? 
	* If we replace it with the designed antecedent, the sentence will be "The young recording star was elated, but he *kept elated hidden*." However, the word *elated is not even a noun*
	* Rewrote: The young recording star was elated with his hit record, but he **kept his feelings hidden**. 
1. After a successful fishing trip with his brothers, Steve let **them** all go. 
	* In the original sentence, Steve let his brothers go.
	* If the writer want to express that Steve let all the fishes go, it should be rewritten to: "After a successful fishing trip with his brothers, Steve let **all of their catch** go."
1. The new tax forms arrived today. **They** want me to fill out every line on the last three pages. 
	* In the problematic sentence, they means "the new tax forms", so the latter sentence represent that the tax forms want you to do the filling out. 
	* Rewrote: The new tax forms arrived today. **Our accountant** wants me to fill out every line on the last three pages. 

# Choose the Right Person
* There are 3 types of particular persons in writing
	* First Person: expresses the personal point of view of the speaker or author.
	* Second Person: directly address the listener or reader.
	* Third Person: expresses from the point of view of a detached writer or other characters.
* Shifts in Person: is one of the most common problems in writing. For example, 
	* Even in a casual atmosphere I can be embarrassed by someone else, and this causes you to become tense. For instance, somebody you know can embarrass you at a party or in a class. It’s so simple for a stranger to embarrass you. This can be upsetting, depending on the kind of person you are; it can be hurtful even if you are mentally strong. 

# Summary
* Pronouns frequently pose some problems for both speakers and writers. However, using the proper pronoun is essential to avoid bboth confusion and miscommunication.
* The following are all pronouns in English:
	* **Personal pronouns**: I/me, you, he/him, she/her, it, we/us, they/them,
	* **Possessive pronouns**: mine, yours, hers, his, theirs, ours,
	* **Reflexive pronouns**: myself, yourself, himself, herself, itself, ourselves, yourselves, themselves
	* **Demonstrative pronouns**: this, that, these, those
	* **Relative pronouns**: who, whom, which, that, whose
	* **Interrogative pronouns**: what, who, whom, which, that, whose
	* **Indefinite pronouns**: all, another, any, anybody, anyone, anything, both, each, either, everybody, everyone, everything, little, few, many, most, much, neither, no one, nobody, none, nothing, one, other, others, several, some, somebody, someone, and something.
* All pronouns must agree in number with their **antecedents (the word they refer to)**. If a pronoun is plural, the word it refers to must be plural, vice versa.
* An antecedent **has to refer to a specific** person, place, or thing. 
* If you think that you may have an unclear pronoun reference, one way to test the sentence is to: check whether the sentence makes sense or not after replacing the pronoun with its contextual antecedent.