# Ending a Sentence
* There are 3 punctuations that signal the ending of a sentence: a period (.), a question mark (?), and an exclamation point (!).
* Periods
	* It is the most often used mark that signal **the end of a declarative sentence or an imperative sentence.**
		* The majority of the viewers stopped watching the program after the format was changed. 
		* Hand me the pen that rolled near you. 
	* It is also used in abbreviation: Dr., Mr., Ms., Rev. (對基督教教士的尊稱), i.e., etc., et al. (等人/以及其他人)
* Question Mark
	* It is most used **at the end of a direction question or a sentence that ends in questions**.
		* Will you go to anywhere on this Saturday?
	* It is also used to show that there is doubt or uncertainty about something written in the sentence.
		* The police are searching for a fugitive known only as Richard-O (?) in connection with the crime. 
		* Paul said he would donate five thousand (?) dollars to the charity. 
	* If you have a series of questions that are not complete sentences, a question mark should be included after each fragment
		* Can you believe that it’s ten below zero? or that it’s snowing? or that my electricity has gone off? or that the telephone has gone out? or that I’m completely out of snacks to get me through this weather? 
* Exclamation Points
	* It is used to express strong feelings.
		* Out of the blue, Marsha called Kyle last night! 
	* **In formal writing, don't use exclamation points** unless you are quoting a a source or citing a title.
		* I refuse to watch that new television program "I Can’t Believe It!" 
	* In informal writing, you might include exclamation points after information that you find to be remarkable or surprising.
		* Paul said that he would donate five thousand dollars (!) to the charity. 
		* Paul said that he would donate five thousand dollars to the charity! 

# Quotation Mark 
* Quotation marks (") are used to **show the reader the exact words that a person said.** This is called a direct quotation.
	* Direct quotation: The bank robber said, “Hand over the money.” 
	* Indirect quotation: The bank robber said to hand over the money. 
* Single quotation marks (') are only, in the United States, used for a quotation within a quotation.
	* “Mark said, ‘I’ll be fine,’ but then he collapsed,” cried Shameka.
	* “I’m reading the story ‘Plaid Blazers and Other Mysteries,’” said Laura. 
* Usage Guidelines:
	1. Every time you change speakers, indent and make a new paragraph.
		* Nick picked up the receiver and said, “Hello.” A voice asked, “Who is this?” “Nick.” “Nick who?” “Well, who is this?” “You know darned well who this is.” 
		* Nick picked up the receiver and said, “Hello.” <br>A voice asked, “Who is this?” <br>“Nick.” <br>“Nick who?” <br>“Well, who is this?” <br>“You know darned well who this is.” 
	1. If you’re quoting more than one sentence from the same source **put the closing quotation marks at the end of the speaker’s last sentence** of that paragraph only.
		* At the diner, Geoff said, “I’ll start with a cup of coffee and a large orange juice. Then I want scrambled eggs, bacon, and toast for breakfast. May I get home fries with that?” 
	1. If you’re quoting more than one paragraph from the same source, **put beginning quotation marks at the start of each paragraph** of your quote **and closing quotation marks at the end only**. 
		* **“We’ll** expect to receive the ransom money by this afternoon. You can get it from your Grandfather Perkins. We know he’s loaded. <br>**“Tell** him not to try any funny stuff. We want the money in unmarked bills, and we don’t want any police involved. We’ll be in touch in ten hours to tell you where to deliver the dough. Just get it and keep your mouth **shut.”** 
	1. Use quotation marks to enclose the titles of **short works** (short poems, short stories, titles of articles from magazines or newspapers, essays, chapters of books, songs, and episodes of television or radio programs)
		* Harry consulted a chapter called “The Art of Detection” from the book How Mysteries Are Written.
		* I particularly enjoy the song “Love Letters,” which is on the CD ABC and XYZ of Love . 
	1. If you’re using **slang, technical terms, or other expressions outside the normal usage**, enclose them in quotation marks
		* My grandmother didn’t know if it was a compliment or an insult when I described my best friend as being “phat.”
		* In computer discussion groups, what does “start a new thread” mean? 
	1. Remember that **periods (.) and commas (,) go inside** closing quotation marks; **colons (:) and semicolons (;) go outside** closing quotation marks. 
		* I was reading the short story “Scared Out of My **Wits,”** but I fell asleep in spite of myself.
		* I was reading the short story “Scared Out of My **Wits”;** I didn’t find it to be scary at all. 
	1. **The question mark (?) and the exclamation mark (!)** go **either inside or outside** the closing marks, depending on what’s being quoted. If both your sentence and the quotation form a question or an exclamation, put the mark inside the closing quotation mark.
		* Martha said, “**Did** you fall asleep reading the story?” 
		* **Did** Martha say, “You must have fallen asleep”? 
		* **Did** I hear Martha say, “**Who** called this afternoon?” 
		* Martha shouted, “I hope you know what you’re doing!” 
		* Martha actually said, “You must be right”! 

# Using Apostrophes (')
* Contraction: An apostrophe often indicates that at least one letter has been omitted 
	* don’t = do not, I'll = I will, is not = isn’t, cannot = can’t, you have = you’ve
* Possession
	1. If a singular noun doesn’t end in –s, its possessive ends in –’s.
		* The car’s engine was still running. 
		* Shannon’s book 
		* the lion’s mane
	1. When you have plural nouns that end in –s, add ' after the final –s. If a plural noun doesn't end in -s (like children, oxen, men), its possessive ends in –’s.
		* The girls’ jackets were left in the coatroom. 
		* five musicians’ instruments 
		* twenty-four years’ worth 
		* the children’s coats
		* the men’s scores
		* the oxen’s yokes 
	1. If a singular noun ends in -s, its possessive ends either in -'s or in -s'. Remember keeping either of the rules in the whole writing.
		* Julie Jones’s help was invaluable in finding a new apartment. 
		* Julie Jones’ help was invaluable in finding a new apartment. 
	1. If more than two persons possess something together, the possessive is used **after the last person’s name only**.
		* Jim and Allison’s cars were stolen. 
	1. If every person possesses something individually, the possessive is used after all names. 
		* Jim’s and Allison’s cars were stolen. 
* Using an Apostrophe to Form a Plural
	1. When you’re writing abbreviations that have more than one period. 
		* M.D. = M.D.’s 
	1. If you have proverbial expressions that involve individual letters or combinations of letters
		* Dot your i’s and cross your t’s. 
	1. when your reader would be confused by reading an – s alone 
		* s = s’s 

# Commas (,)
* When readers see a comma, they know that there is a slight pause, and they can tell how particular words or phrases relate to other parts of the sentence. 
	* Will you call Mary Alice Lee and Jason or should I? 
	* Will you call Mary, Alice, Lee, and Jason, or should I?
	* Will you call Mary Alice, Lee, and Jason, or should I?
	* Will you call Mary, Alice Lee, and Jason, or should I? 
* Commas with a Series 
	* If you have a series of items, use a comma to separate the items. 
	* Use a comma between two or more **adjectives** that modify a noun
		* The man in the **torn, tattered** jacket moved quickly through the crowded, unlit street. 
	* If the *first adjective modifies the idea expressed by the combination* of subsequent adjectives and the noun, then you don’t need commas. 
		* Many countries do not have stable *central governments*.
	* If you’re using and, or, or nor to connect the items in the series, don’t use commas
		* The flag is red and white and blue.
		* The flag might be red or white or blue.
		* The flag is neither red nor white nor blue. 
* Commas with Compound Sentences 
	* If you have two independent clauses and they’re **joined by for, and, not, but, or, yet, or so (fanboys, Coordinating Conjunctions)**, join them with a comma
		* It was more than three hours past lunchtime, and everybody was grumbling about being hungry. 
	* You may **eliminate the comma if the two independent clauses are short** and if there would be no danger of confusion with the comma not in the sentence. 
		* We filled up with gas and we went on our way.
	* If you have a simple sentence with **compound verbs**, don’t put a comma between the verbs
		* I wanted to get some rest but needed to get more work done.
* Commas with Quoted Material 
	* If a quoted sentence is interrupted by words such as he said or she replied, use commas. Moreover, the first comma goes before the closing quotation mark and the second comma goes before the beginning quotation 
		* “For this contest,” he said, “you need three pencils and two pieces of paper.” 
	* If the words being quoted make up a question or an exclamation, don’t include a comma:
		* “Put that down right now!” Barry cried. 
* Commas with Clauses, Phrases, Appositives, and Introductory Words
	* Use commas to set apart clauses, participle phrases, and appositives that **aren’t necessary to the meaning of the sentence**. 
		* The handsome man over there, **the only one who works in the deli department of the local supermarket**, has black hair and brown eyes. 
	* Remember: If you need the extra words for the meaning, you don’t need the commas. 
		* The only man **who works in the deli department of the local supermarket** was arrested for stealing four grapes and five apples. 
	* Commas are also used after introductory words that aren’t necessary for the meaning of a sentence. The same rule applies when they appear at the end of a sentence.
		* Why, don’t you look nice tonight!
		* Kayla, please help your brother find his tricycle.
		* If you must know, I have been dyeing my hair for the past ten years. 
		* Don’t you think that new CD really rocks, Jean-Marie?
		* You’ll be coming with us to the company picnic on Sunday, I hope.
	* Use commas around words that interrupt a sentence which are called **parenthetical expressions (插入語)**. 
		* The answer to the next question, Paula, can be found on page thirty-six.
		* This textbook, unlike the one I had before, is written in a style I can understand. 
	* Use a comma after an introductory verbal or **verbal phrase**: 
		* Weeping at the sight of the destruction, the news reporter broke down on camera.
		* To try to regain his composure, he took several deep breaths. 
	* Use a **comma after an introductory adverb clause**. However, *it is optional that use a comma before the clause*.
		* Because I didn’t stop at the red light, I got a ticket.
		* We did it because we felt it our duty.
		* If Glenn comes in town tonight, the whole family is going to get together for a picnic. 
		* He will come if you invite him
		* The passenger apparently arrived late, if the witness’s statement is true.

# Summary