## Essay
It is a highly debates issue whether learning ideas and concepts are more significant than learning facts. Deeply deliberating over the issue, I believe that it is more effective to realize ideas and concepts than to focus on facts. Numerous reasons justify why I agree with the statement, and I would explore only a few of the most important ones here.

To begin with, ideas and concepts are harder for students to attain than those simple facts. As the development of modern technology, students can get knowledge of various facts without any effort. To explain in details, students can easily get to the latest facts on the Internet, with only a few clicks. For example, what is the richest people in the world, what is the biggest city in America, or what do most of people do to earn. Admittedly, the kind of "what" question can teach us some facts of current time. Since these kinds of facts are accessible easily, these questions of facts can not provide us more than a simple device with an internet connection. On the contrary, it is not a effortless task for students to develop ideas and concepts. Compared to facts, the way of thinking is relatively rare on the Internet. Additionally, most of facts and ideas can barely be applied to all people. In other words, people with different background such as nation, ethnicity and religion usually tend to require singular ideas and concepts. Therefore, to cultivate a students' idea and concepts need personal instructions and care, which is much harder than merely searching for some facts.

Secondly, concepts and ideas are the fundamental basis of creation and applications with which students can make higher contribution to the society. Most of the time, facts only last for a short term and serve as a small proportion of usage. We may easily forget about the richest people in the world and the average salary of people will change year by year. However, concepts and ideas tend to be long-lasting, and can be consistently applied to various creation and applications. Takeing artificial intelligence as instance, many convenient tools emerged after the boom of AI. In the past, people are forced to learn computer science, math, statistics, and machine learning for stepping into the area of artificial intelligence. Nowadays, people only need to find proper tools and learn what they achieve and then an artificial intelligence application is generated. However, the application will become debris after new algorithm and theory are developed. Afterwards, people who use ready-made tools to build AI will be substituted by those who perceive the concepts and are able to create their own works.

To sum up, it is more important that students can understands ideas and concepts than simply learn facts, which **is due half to** the difficulties of forming ideas and concepts **and half to** the significant contribution of ideas and concepts to creation and applications.

## Vocab
- easy 簡單的 == effortless == painless == accessible
- waste 廢物 == debris == scrap == trash == garbage

## Topic
Do you agree or disagree with the following statement?
It is more important for students to understand ideas and concepts than it is for them to learn facts.
Use specific reasons and examples to support your answer.