[Hackers: the Internet's immune system](https://www.ted.com/talks/keren_elazari_hackers_the_internet_s_immune_system/transcript?referrer=playlist-who_are_the_hackers&language=en)

Four years ago, a security researcher, or, as most people would call it, a hacker, found a way to literally make ATMs **throw** money at him. His name was Barnaby Jack, and this technique was later called "jackpotting" in his honor. 

I'm here today because I think we actually need hackers. Barnaby Jack could have easily turned into a career criminal or James Bond villain with his knowledge, but he chose to show the world his research instead. He believed that sometimes you have to **demo** a threat to spark a solution. And I feel the same way. That's why I'm here today. 
	- career criminal 職業犯罪者

We are often terrified and fascinated by the power hackers now have. They scare us. But the choices they make have dramatic outcomes that influence us all. So I am here today because I think we need hackers, and in fact, they just might be the immune system for the information age. Sometimes they make us sick, but they also find those hidden threats in our world, and they make us fix it. 

I knew that I might get hacked for giving this talk, so let me save you the effort. In true TED fashion, here is my most embarrassing picture. But it would be difficult for you to find me in it, because I'm the one who looks like a boy standing to the side. I was such a nerd back then that even the boys on the Dungeons and Dragons team **wouldn't** let me join. This is who I was, but this is who I wanted to be: Angelina Jolie. She **portrayed** Acid Burn in the '95 film "Hackers." She was pretty and she could **rollerblade**, but being a hacker, that made her powerful. And I wanted to be just like her, so I started spending a lot of time on hacker chat rooms and online forums. I remember one late night I found a bit of PHP code. I didn't really know what it did, but I copy-pasted it and used it anyway to get into a password-protected site like that. Open **Sesame**. It was a simple trick, and I was just a **script kiddie** back then, but to me, that trick, it felt like this, like I had discovered limitless potential at my fingertips. This is the **rush** of power that hackers feel. It's geeks just like me discovering they have access to superpower, one that requires the skill and **tenacity** of their intellect, but thankfully no **radioactive** spiders. 
	- rollerblade (n)直排輪 (v)溜直排輪
	- Open Sesame 芝麻開門
	- sesame /ˈsɛsəmi/ 
		> 芝麻 |A tall annual herbaceous plant of tropical and subtropical areas of the Old World, cultivated for its oil-rich seeds.|
		> 芝麻 |The edible seeds of the sesame plant, which are used whole or have the oil extracted.|
	- script kiddie 腳本小子，貶義詞，用來描述以「駭客」自居並沾沾自喜的初學者
	+ rush
		> 衝/奔 |Move with urgent haste.| Oliver rushed after her
		> 奔騰 |(of air or a liquid) flow strongly.| the water rushed in through the great oaken gates
		> 趕緊 |Act with great haste.| as soon as the campaign started they rushed into action
		> 使倉促行事/催促 |Force (someone) to act hastily.| I don't want to rush you into something
		> 急送 |Take (someone) somewhere with great haste.| an ambulance was waiting to rush him to hospital
		> 急派 |Deliver (something) quickly to (someone)| we'll rush you a copy at once
		> 匆忙地做 |Deal with (something) hurriedly.| panic measures were rushed through parliament
		> 突然襲擊 |Dash towards (someone or something) in an attempt to attack or capture.| to rush the bank and fire willy-nilly could be disastrous for everyone
		> |Advance towards (an opposing player, especially the quarterback)| a linebacker who was gifted in rushing the quarterback
		> |An act of advancing forward, especially towards the quarterback.|
		> 抱球跑離爭球 |Run from scrimmage with the ball.| he rushed for 100 yards on 22 carries
		> |Entertain (a new student) in order to assess suitability for membership of a college fraternity or sorority.|
		> 參訪(兄弟會) |(of a student) visit (a college fraternity or sorority) with a view to joining it.| he rushed three fraternities
		> 急速行動 |A sudden quick movement towards something, typically by a number of people.| there was a rush for the door
		> 一陣 |A sudden flow or flood.| she felt a rush of cold air
		> 忙碌時刻 |A flurry of hasty activity.| the pre-Christmas rush
		> 搶購/爭購 |A sudden strong demand for a commodity.| there's been a rush on the Western News because of the murder
		> 一陣 |A sudden intense feeling.| Mark felt a rush of anger
		> 一陣興奮 |A sudden thrill or feeling of euphoria such as experienced after taking certain drugs.| users experience a rush
		> rushes |The first prints made of a film after a period of shooting.|
		> 燈心草 |An erect, tufted marsh or waterside plant resembling a sedge or grass, with inconspicuous greenish or brownish flowers. Widely distributed in temperate areas, some kinds are used for matting, chair seats, and baskets.|
	- tenacity /tɪˈnasɪti/ 
		> 緊握 |The quality or fact of being able to grip something firmly; grip.| the sheer tenacity of the limpet
		> 決心/堅持 |The quality or fact of being very determined; determination.| you have to admire the tenacity of these two guys
		> 保持/存續 |The quality or fact of continuing to exist; persistence.| the tenacity of certain myths within the historical record
	- radioactive /ˌreɪdɪəʊˈaktɪv/ 

But with great power comes great responsibility, and you all like to think that if we had such powers, we would only use them for good. But what if you could read your **ex's** emails, or add a **couple zeros** to your bank account. What would you do then? Indeed, many hackers do not resist those temptations, and so they are responsible *in one way or another* to billions of dollars lost each year to fraud, malware or *plain old identity theft*, which is a serious issue. But there are other hackers, hackers who just like to break things, and it is precisely those hackers that can find the weaker elements in our world and make us fix it. 
	- one way or another == one way or the other
		> 以某種方式 |in some way that is not stated| Everyone at the party was related (in) one way or another.
		> 無論如何/無論怎樣 |in any way that is possible| These bills have to be paid one way or another.

This is what happened last year when another security researcher called Kyle Lovett discovered a *gaping hole* in the design of certain wireless routers like you might have in your home or office. He learned that anyone could remotely connect to these devices over the Internet and download documents from hard drives attached to those routers, no password needed. He reported it to the company, of course, but they ignored his report. Perhaps they thought universal access was a feature, not a bug, until two months ago when a group of hackers used it to get into people's files. But they didn't steal anything. They left a note: Your router and your documents can be accessed by anyone in the world. Here's what you should do to fix it. We hope we helped. By getting into people's files like that, yeah, they broke the law, but they also forced that company to fix their product. 
	- gaping 張開的 == (of a hole, wound, etc.) wide open.

Making **vulnerabilities** known to the public is a practice called full disclosure in the hacker community, and it is **controversial**, but it does make me think of how hackers have an evolving effect on technologies we use every day. This is what *Khalil* did. Khalil is a **Palestinian** hacker from the West Bank, and he found a serious privacy flaw on Facebook which he attempted to report through the company's bug bounty program. These are usually great arrangements for companies to reward hackers disclosing vulnerabilities they find in their code. Unfortunately, due to some miscommunications, his report was not acknowledged. *Frustrated with the exchange*, he took to use his own discovery to post on Mark Zuckerberg's wall. This got their attention, all right, and they fixed the bug, but because he hadn't reported it properly, he was denied the bounty usually paid out for such discoveries. Thankfully for Khalil, a group of hackers were watching out for him. In fact, they raised more than 13,000 dollars to reward him for this discovery, raising a vital discussion in the technology industry about how we come up with incentives for hackers to do the right thing. But I think there's a greater story here still. Even companies founded by hackers, like Facebook was, still have a complicated relationship when it comes to hackers. And so for more **conservative** organizations, it is going to take time and adapting in order to embrace hacker culture and the creative chaos that it brings with it. But I think it's worth the effort, because the alternative, to blindly fight all hackers, is to go against the power you cannot control at the cost of **stifling** innovation and regulating knowledge. These are things that will come back and bite you. 
	- vulnerability /vʌln(ə)rəˈbɪlɪti/
	- controversial 引起爭論的 == Giving rise or likely to give rise to controversy or public disagreement.
	- Palestinian /ˌpalɪˈstɪnɪən/ (n)巴勒斯坦人 (adj)巴勒斯坦的/巴勒斯坦人的
	- stifle
		> 使窒息 |Make (someone) unable to breathe properly; suffocate.| those in the streets were stifled by the fumes
		> 忍住 |Restrain (a reaction) or stop oneself acting on (an emotion)| she stifled a giggle
		> 遏止 |Prevent or constrain (an activity or idea)| high taxes were stifling private enterprise
	- stifling
		> 熱得令人窒息的 |(of heat, air, or a room) very hot and causing difficulties in breathing; suffocating.|
		> 鬱悶難受的 |Making one feel constrained or oppressed.| the stifling formality of her family life
	? the alternative, to blindly fight all hackers, is to go against the power you cannot control at the cost of stifling innovation and regulating knowledge. 因為另一個選擇，也就是盲目地打擊所有的駭客，對抗著你無法掌控的力量，並因此扼殺創新和規範知識為代價，並因此扼殺創新和規範知識為代價，

It is even more true if we go after hackers that are willing to risk their own freedom for ideals like the freedom of the web, especially in times like this, like today even, as governments and corporates fight to control the Internet. I find it astounding that someone from the **shadowy** corners of cyberspace can become its voice of opposition, its last line of defense even, perhaps someone like Anonymous, the leading brand of global hacktivism. This universal hacker movement needs no introduction today, but six years ago they were not much more than an Internet subculture dedicated to sharing silly pictures of funny cats and Internet **trolling** campaigns. Their moment of transformation was in early 2008 when the Church of **Scientology** attempted to remove certain leaked videos from appearing on certain websites. This is when Anonymous was forged out of the seemingly random collection of Internet dwellers. It turns out, the Internet doesn't like it when you try to remove things from it, and it will react with cyberattacks and elaborate **pranks** and with a series of organized protests all around the world, from my hometown of **Tel Aviv** to Adelaide, Australia. This proved that Anonymous and this idea can rally the masses from the keyboards to the streets, and it laid the foundations for dozens of future operations against perceived **injustices** to their online and offline world. Since then, they've gone after many targets. They've uncovered corruption, abuse. They've hacked popes and politicians, and I think their effect is larger than simple **denial** of service attacks that take down websites or even leak sensitive documents. I think that, like Robin Hood, they are in the business of redistribution, but what they are after isn't your money. It's not your documents. It's your attention. They grab the spotlight for causes they support, forcing us to take note, acting as a global *magnifying glass* for issues that we are not as aware of but perhaps we should be. They have been called many names from criminals to terrorists, and I cannot justify their illegal means, but the ideas they fight for are ones that matter to us all. The reality is, hackers can do a lot more than break things. They can bring people together. 
	- troll
		> 侏儒/巨人 |(in folklore) an ugly creature depicted as either a giant or a dwarf.|
		> |Make a deliberately offensive or provocative online post with the aim of upsetting someone or eliciting an angry response from them.| if people are obviously trolling then I will delete your posts and do my best to ban you
		> |A person who makes a deliberately offensive or provocative online post.| 
		> |A deliberately offensive or provocative online post.|
		> 搜索 |Carefully and systematically search an area for something.| a group of companies trolling for partnership opportunities
		> 漫步 |Walk in a leisurely way; stroll.| we all trolled into town
		> 隨意地唱 |Sing (something) in a happy and carefree way.| he trolled a note or two
	- Internet troll 網路白目
	- Scientology /sʌɪənˈtɒlədʒi/  山達基，非正式中文譯名包括「科學神教」和「科學教」，是一套信仰與修行活動的體系及宗教
	- prank /praŋk/ (n/v)惡作劇
	- Tel Aviv 特拉維夫市，是以色列第二大城市，也是國際社會普遍承認的以色列首都
	- denial of service attacks = DoS 阻斷服務攻擊
	- magnifying glass 放大鏡

And if the Internet doesn't like it when you try to remove things from it, just watch what happens when you try to shut the Internet down. This took place in Egypt in January 2011, and as President Hosni Mubarak attempted a **desperate** move to **quash** the rising revolution on the streets of Cairo, he sent his personal troops down to Egypt's Internet service providers and had them physically kill the switch on the country's connection to the world overnight. For a government to do a thing like that was **unprecedented**, and for hackers, it made it personal. Hackers like the Telecomix group were already active *on the ground*, helping Egyptians bypass censorship using clever workarounds like Morse code and *ham radio*. It was *high season* for low tech, which the government couldn't block, but when the Net went completely down, Telecomix brought in the big guns. They found European service providers that still had 20-year-old analog **dial-up** access infrastructure. They opened up 300 of those lines for Egyptians to use, serving slow but sweet Internet connection for Egyptians. This worked. It worked so well, in fact, one guy even used it to download an episode of "How I Met Your Mother." But while Egypt's future is still uncertain, when the same thing happened in Syria just one year later, Telecomix were prepared with those Internet lines, and Anonymous, they were perhaps the first international group to officially *denounce* the actions of the Syrian military by **defacing** their website. 
	- quash /kwɒʃ/ <--> crash /kraʃ/ 
	- unprecedented /ʌnˈprɛsɪdɛntɪd/ 
	- on the ground 在公眾中/在普通百姓中 == among the general public
		> Their political ideas have a lot of support on the ground.
	- ham radio 業餘無線電
	- high season 旺季
	- dial-up 撥號連線
	- denounce
		> 公開譴責 |Publicly declare to be wrong or evil.| the Assembly denounced the use of violence
		> 指控/彈劾 |Inform against.| priests denounced him to the King for heresy

But with this sort of power, it really depends on where you stand, because one man's hero can be another's villain, and so the Syrian Electronic Army is a **pro-Assad** group of hackers who support his **contentious** **regime**. They've taken down multiple **high-profile** targets in the past few years, including the *Associated Press's* Twitter account, in which they posted a message about an attack on the White House injuring President Obama. This tweet was fake, of course, but the resulting drop in the Dow Jones index that day was most certainly not, and a lot of people lost a lot of money. 
	- Assad 巴沙爾·阿薩德，現任敘利亞總統兼武裝部隊總司令、敘利亞復興黨總書記、元帥軍階
	- contentious
		> 有異議的 |Causing or likely to cause an argument; controversial.| a contentious issue
		> 引起爭論的 |Involving heated argument.| the socio-economic plan had been the subject of contentious debate
		> 引起爭論的 |(of a person) given to provoking argument.|
		> |Relating to or involving differences between contending parties.|
	+ regime
		> 政府/政權 |A government, especially an authoritarian one.| ideological opponents of the regime
		> 制度 |A system or ordered way of doing things.| detention centres with a very tough physical regime
		> 養生法 |A coordinated programme for the promotion or restoration of health; a regimen.|
	- high-profile 引人注目的/備受關注的 ==  attracting a lot of attention and interest from the public and newspapers, television, etc.
	- Associated Press 聯合通訊社，為美國乃至於世界最大的通訊社，是由各成員單位聯合組成的合作型通訊社

This sort of thing is happening all over the world right now. In conflicts from the **Crimean Peninsula** to Latin America, from Europe to the United States, hackers are a force for social, political and military influence. As individuals or in groups, volunteers or military conflicts, there are hackers everywhere. They *come from all walks of life*, **ethnicities**, ideologies and genders, I might add. They are now shaping the world's stage. Hackers represent an exceptional force for change in the 21st century. This is because access to information is a critical currency of power, one which governments would like to control, a thing they attempt to do by setting up *all-you-can-eat surveillance programs*, a thing they need hackers for, by the way. And so the establishment has long had a love-hate relationship when it comes to hackers, because the same people who demonize hacking also utilize it at large. 
	- Crimean Peninsula 克里米亞半島，簡稱克里米亞，是黑海北岸的一個幾乎完全被海包圍的半島。
	+ walk of life 各行各業/各個社會階層
		> Members of the gym include lawyers, teachers, plumbers, and hairdressers - people from all (different) walks of life.
	- ethnicity /ɛθˈnɪsɪti/ 種族特徵 == The fact or state of belonging to a social group that has a common national or cultural tradition.
	- all-you-can-eat
		> 隨意吃的/吃到飽的 |used to describe a meal at a restaurant where people can serve themselves as much food as they want| The bar has an all-you-can-eat buffet lunch for $10.
		> 無上限的（服務、下載量等） |used to describe an arrangement in which a company allows customers to use a service as much as they like or to download as much as they like from the internet for a fixed amount of money| all-you-can-eat packages of voice, video, and internet services

Two years ago, I saw General Keith Alexander. He's the *NSA* director and U.S. cyber commander, but instead of his four star general uniform, he was wearing jeans and a t-shirt. This was at DEF CON, the world's largest hacker conference. Perhaps like me, General Alexander didn't see 12,000 criminals that day in Vegas. I think he saw untapped potential. In fact, he was there to give a hiring pitch. "In this room right here," he said, "is the talent our nation needs." Well, hackers in the back row replied, "Then stop arresting us." (Applause) 
	- NSA == National Security Agency 美國國家安全局

Indeed, for years, hackers have been *on the wrong side of the fence*, but in light of what we know now, who is more watchful of our online world? The rules of the game are not that clear anymore, but hackers are perhaps the only ones still capable of challenging *overreaching* governments and data-hoarding corporates on their own playing field. To me, that represents hope. 
	- side of the fence 立場/邊 == used to refer to either of the opposing positions or interests involved in a particular situation.
	- overreach
		> 做得過頭/伸得過遠 |Reach out too far.| never lean sideways from a ladder or overreach
		> |(of a horse or dog) bring the hind feet so far forward that they fall alongside or strike the forefeet.| the horse overreached jumping the first hurdle
		> |An injury to a forefoot of a horse resulting from its having overreached.|
		> 智勝 |Get the better of by cunning; outwit.| Faustus's lunacy in thinking he can overreach the devil

For the past three decades, hackers have done a lot of things, but they have also impacted *civil liberties*, innovation and Internet freedom, so I think it's time we take a good look at how we choose to portray them, because if we keep expecting them to be the bad guys, how can they be the heroes too? My years in the hacker world have made me realize both the problem and the beauty about hackers: They just can't see something broken in the world and leave it be. They are compelled to either exploit it or try and change it, and so they find the vulnerable aspects in our rapidly changing world. They make us, they force us to fix things or demand something better, and I think we need them to do just that, because after all, it is not information that wants to be free, it's us. 
	- civil liberties 公民自由