[How I hacked online dating](https://www.ted.com/talks/amy_webb_how_i_hacked_online_dating/transcript?referrer=playlist-who_are_the_hackers#t-1031288)

So my name is Amy Webb, and a few years ago I found myself at the end of yet another fantastic relationship that came *burning down* in a spectacular fashion. And I thought, what's wrong with me? I don't understand why this keeps happening. 
	- burn (sth) down 燒毀 == (with reference to a building or structure) destroy or be destroyed completely by fire.

So I asked everybody in my life what they thought. I turned to my grandmother, who always had plenty of advice, and she said, "Stop being so *picky*. You've got to date around. And most importantly, true love will find you when you least expect it." 
	- picky 挑剔的 == choosy == demanding == exacting == fastidious == finicky == fussy

Now as it turns out, I'm somebody who thinks a lot about data, as you'll soon find. I am constantly swimming in numbers, formulas and charts. I also have a very tight-knit family, and I'm very, very close with my sister, and as a result, I wanted to have the same type of family when I grew up. 

So I'm at the end of this bad breakup, I'm 30 years old, I figure I'm probably going to have to date somebody for about six months before I'm ready to get **monogamous** and before we can sort of cohabitate, and we have to do that for a while before we can get engaged. And if I want to start having children by the time I'm 35, that meant that I would have had to have been on my way to marriage five years ago. So that wasn't going to work. 
	- monogamous /məˈnɒɡəməs/ 
		> 一夫一妻制的 |Involving marriage to one person at a time.|
		> 單一性伴侶的 |Having a sexual relationship with only one partner at a time.| she admits that she has never been strictly monogamous

If my strategy was to least-expect my way into true love, then the variable that I had to deal with was serendipity. In short, I was trying to figure out what's the probability of my finding Mr. Right? Well, at the time I was living in the city of Philadelphia, and it's a big city, and I figured, in this entire place, there are lots of possibilities. So again, I started doing some math. Population of Philadelphia: it has 1.5 million people. I figure about half of that are men, so that takes the number down to 750,000. I'm looking for a guy between the ages of 30 and 36, which was only four percent of the population, so now I'm dealing with the possibility of 30,000 men. I was looking for somebody who was Jewish, because I am and that was important to me. That's only 2.3 percent of the population. I figure I'm attracted to maybe one out of 10 of those men, and there was no way I was going to deal with somebody who was an avid golfer. So that basically meant there were 35 men for me that I could possibly date in the entire city of Philadelphia. 

In the meantime, my very large Jewish family was already all married and well on their way to having lots and lots of children, and I felt like I was under tremendous peer pressure to get my life going already. 

So I have two possible **strategies** at this point I'm sort of figuring out. One, I can take my grandmother's advice and sort of least-expect my way into maybe bumping into the one out of 35 possible men in the entire 1.5-million-person city of Philadelphia, or I could try online dating. 

Now, I like the idea of online dating, because it's predicated on an algorithm, and that's really just a simple way of saying I've got a problem, I'm going to use some data, run it through a system and get to a solution. So online dating is the second most popular way that people now meet each other, but as it turns out, algorithms have been around for thousands of years in almost every culture. In fact, in Judaism, there were matchmakers a long time ago, and though they didn't have an explicit algorithm **per se**, they definitely were running through formulas in their heads, like, is the girl going to like the boy? Are the families going to get along? What's the **rabbi** going to say? Are they going to start having children right away? The matchmaker would sort of think through all of this, put two people together, and that would be the end of it. So in my case, I thought, well, will data and an algorithm lead me to my Prince Charming? So I decided to sign on. 
	? algorithms have been around for thousands of years in almost every culture 但是計算的方法在每個文化中其實已經存在好幾千年了 
	- be around
		> 固定出現 |To be present at or come to a certain place, usually specified by a particular time.| Sorry I can't make it out to see you today! Will you be around tomorrow?
		> 在某段時間存在、有關或相當重要 |To exist, be relevant, or have significance, usually specified by a particular period of time.| Yes, I'm still around after all these years
		> 陪伴 |To socialize with or have close physical proximity to somebody.| I just feel safer when you're around
	- rabbi 拉比，主要為有學問的學者，是老師，也是智者的象徵
	+ per se 本身地 == By or in itself or themselves; intrinsically.
		> it is not these facts per se that are important

Now, there was *one small catch*. As I'm signing on to the various dating websites, as it happens, I was really, really busy. But that actually wasn't the biggest problem. The biggest problem is that I hate filling out questionnaires of any kind, and I certainly don't like questionnaires that are like **Cosmo quizzes**. So I just copied and pasted from my **résumé**. 
	- Now, there was one small catch 這裡有一個小小的插曲 
	+ catch -> caught -> caught
		> 抓住/攔截 |Intercept and hold (something which has been thrown, propelled, or dropped)| she threw the bottle into the air and caught it again
		> 接住 |Intercept the fall of (someone)| he fell forwards and Linda caught him
		> 抓住 |Seize or take hold of.| he caught hold of her arm as she tried to push past him
		> 捕捉 |Capture (a person or animal that tries or would try to escape)| we hadn't caught a single rabbit
		> 抓到 |Succeed in reaching a person who is ahead of one.|
		> 逮住/捕獲 |Surprise (someone) in an incriminating situation or in the act of doing something wrong.| he was caught with bomb-making equipment in his home
		> 偶然遇到 |Come upon (someone) unexpectedly.| unexpected snow caught us by surprise
		> 鉤住/卡住 |(of an object) accidentally become entangled or trapped in something.| a button caught in her hair
		> 使..被卡住 |Have (a part of one's body or clothing) become entangled or trapped in something.| she caught her foot in the bedspread
		> 夾住/固定 |Fix or fasten in place.| her hair was caught up in a chignon
		> 趕上 |Reach in time and board (a train, bus, or aircraft)| they caught the 12.15 from Oxford
		> 趕上 |Reach or be in a place in time to see (a person, performance, programme, etc.)| she was hurrying downstairs to catch the news
		> 參加/看 |Attend or watch (a performance)| we'll get some burgers and catch a movie
		> 引起/吸引/迷住 |Engage (a person's interest or imagination)| it was the business scheme that had caught his imagination
		> 快速一看 |Perceive fleetingly.| she caught a glimpse of herself in the mirror
		> 理解/聽清楚 |Hear or understand (something said), especially with effort.| he bellowed something Jess couldn't catch
		> 傳神地描繪/再現 |Succeed in evoking or representing.| the programme caught something of the flavour of Minoan culture
		> 打 |Strike (someone) on a part of the body.| Ben caught him on the chin with an uppercut
		> 撞到 |Accidentally strike (a part of one's body) against something.| she fell and caught her head on the corner of the hearth
		> 感染 |Contract (an illness) through infection or contagion.| he served in Macedonia, where he caught malaria
		> 燃燒 |Become ignited and start burning.| the rafters have caught
		> 點火 |(of an engine) fire and start running.| the generator caught immediately
		> 抓住/接球 |An act of catching something, typically a ball.|
		> 捕獲量 |An amount of fish caught.| the UK's North Sea haddock catch
		> 好同伴/好伴侶 |A person considered desirable as a partner or spouse.| I mistakenly thought he would be a good catch
		> 接球遊戲 |A game in which a ball is thrown back and forth between two or more players.|
		> 窗鉤/門扣 |A device for securing something such as a door, window, or box.| the window catch was rusty
		> 圈套/隱藏的困難 |A hidden problem or disadvantage in an apparently ideal situation.| there's a catch in it somewhere
		> 哽咽 |An unevenness in a person's voice caused by emotion.| there was a catch in Anne's voice
	- Cosmo quizzes == the quizzes appear on the Cosmopolitan magazine
	- résumé /ˈrɛzjʊmeɪ/ 

So in the descriptive part up top, I said that I was an award-winning journalist and a future thinker. When I was asked about fun activities and my ideal date, I said **monetization** and fluency in Japanese. I talked a lot about JavaScript. 
	- monetization
		> 獲利 |The action or process of earning revenue from an asset, business, etc.| the network supports the distribution and monetization of online content to any type of site or device
		> 換成現金 |The conversion of an asset, debt, etc. into cash or a form easily converted into cash.| the trust is actively reviewing the monetization of a portion of its assets to reduce indebtedness
		> 貨幣化 |The conversion or adaptation of a society, economy, etc. to trade based on the exchange of money.| the growth of the cattle trade spurred the monetization of the Highland economy

So obviously this was not the best way to put my most sexy foot forward. But the real failure was that there were plenty of men for me to date. These algorithms had a sea full of men that wanted to take me out on lots of dates -- what turned out to be truly awful dates. 
	- put one's best foot forward 全力以赴 == to try as hard as you can

There was this guy Steve, the I.T. guy. The algorithm matched us up because we share a love of **gadgets**, we share a love of math and data and '80s music, and so I agreed to go out with him. So Steve the I.T. guy invited me out to one of Philadelphia's **white-table-cloth**, extremely expensive restaurants. And we went in, and *right off the bat*, our conversation really wasn't *taking flight*, but he was ordering a lot of food. In fact, he didn't even bother looking at the menu. He was ordering multiple appetizers, multiple **entrées**, for me as well, and suddenly there are piles and piles of food on our table, also lots and lots of bottles of wine. So we're nearing the end of our conversation and the end of dinner, and I've decided Steve the I.T. guy and I are really just not meant for each other, but we'll *part ways as friends*, when he gets up to go to the bathroom, and in the meantime, the bill comes to our table. And listen, I'm a modern woman. I am totally down with splitting the bill. But then Steve the I.T. guy didn't come back. 
	- gadget /ˈɡadʒɪt/ 小工具 == A small mechanical or electronic device or tool, especially an ingenious or novel one.
	- white tablecloth restaurant == An upscale or expensive restaurant, as opposed to a casual or fast-food restaurant
	- right off the bat 立刻/馬上 == immediately
		> You can't expect to be accepted in a new town right off the bat.
	- take flight
		> 逃離 |to leave or run away from danger| Fearing arrest, they took flight and hid in the mountains
		> 起飛/飛起 |to begin flying| The bird took flight when we tried to approach it
		> 快速發展 |to begin a period of rapid activity, development, or growth| The idea really took flight and soon it seemed everyone was copying it
	- entrée /ˈɒntreɪ/ 
		> 主菜 |The main course of a meal.|
		> 入場權 |The right to enter or join a particular sphere or group.’| an actress with an entrée into the intellectual society of Berlin

And that was my entire month's rent. So needless to say, I was not having a good night. So I run home, I call my mother, I call my sister, and as I do, at the end of each one of these terrible, terrible dates, I **regale** them with the details. And they say to me, "Stop complaining." "You're just being too picky." 
	+ regale
		> 逗樂 |Entertain or amuse (someone) with talk.| he regaled her with a colourful account of that afternoon's meeting
		> 款待 |Lavishly supply (someone) with food or drink.| he was regaled with excellent home cooking

So I said, fine, from here on out I'm only going on dates where I know there's Wi-Fi, and I'm bringing my laptop. I'm going to *shove it into my bag*, I'm going to have this email template, and I'm going to fill it out and collect information on all these different data points during the date to prove to everybody that **empirically**, these dates really are terrible. 
	- shove
		> 推/擠 |Push (someone or something) roughly.| they started pushing and shoving people out of the way
		> 推 |A strong push.| she gave him a hefty shove and he nearly fell
		> 撞 |Make one's way by pushing someone or something.| Woolley shoved past him
		> 隨意放 |Put (something) somewhere carelessly or roughly.| she shoved the books into her briefcase
		> |Used to express angry dismissal of something.| I told the selectors to shove it
	- empirically /ɛmˈpɪrɪkli/ 憑藉著經驗地 == By means of observation or experience rather than theory or pure logic.

So I started tracking things like really stupid, awkward, sexual remarks; bad vocabulary; the number of times a man forced me to high-five him. So I started to crunch some numbers, and that allowed me to make some correlations. So as it turns out, for some reason, men who drink Scotch reference **kinky** sex immediately.
	+ crunch
		> 嘎嘎作響地咬 |Crush (a hard or brittle foodstuff) with the teeth, making a loud but muffled grinding sound.| she paused to crunch a ginger biscuit
		> 發出嘎嘎聲 |Make a crunching sound, especially when walking or driving over gravel or an icy surface.|
		> |A loud muffled grinding sound like that of something hard or brittle being crushed.| Marco's fist struck Brian's nose with a crunch
		> 處理 |(especially of a computer) process (large quantities of information)| the program crunches data from 14,000 sensors to decipher evolving patterns
		> 重要時刻 |A crucial point or situation, typically one at which a decision with important consequences must be made.| when it comes to the crunch you chicken out
		> 財政困難/短缺 |A severe shortage of money or credit.|
		> |A physical exercise designed to strengthen the abdominal muscles; a sit-up.|
	- kinky /ˈkɪŋki/ 
		> 性行為反常的 |Involving or given to unusual sexual behavior.|
		> 撩人的 |(of clothing) sexually provocative in an unusual way.| kinky underwear
		> 扭結的 |Having kinks or twists.| long and kinky hair

Well, it turns out that these probably weren't bad guys. There were just bad for me. And as it happens, the algorithms that were setting us up, they weren't bad either. These algorithms were doing exactly what they were designed to do, which was to take our user-generated information, in my case, my résumé, and match it up with other people's information.

See, the real problem here is that, while the algorithms work just fine, you and I don't, when confronted with blank windows where we're supposed to input our information online. Very few of us have the ability to be totally and brutally honest with ourselves. The other problem is that these websites are asking us questions like, are you a dog person or a cat person? Do you like horror films or romance films? I'm not looking for a **pen pal**. I'm looking for a husband. Right? So there's a certain amount of superficiality in that data. 
	- pen pal 筆友 == penfriend

So I said fine, I've got a new plan. I'm going to keep using these online dating sites, but I'm going to treat them as databases, and rather than waiting for an algorithm to set me up, I think I'm going to try reverse-engineering this entire system. So knowing that there was superficial data that was being used to match me up with other people, I decided instead to ask my own questions. What was every single possible thing that I could think of that I was looking for in a mate? 

So I started writing and writing and writing, and at the end, I had amassed 72 different data points. I wanted somebody was Jew-ish, so I was looking for somebody who had the same background and thoughts on our culture, but wasn't going to force me to go to **shul** every Friday and Saturday. I wanted somebody who worked hard, because work for me is extremely important, but not too hard. For me, the hobbies that I have are really just new work projects that I've launched. I also wanted somebody who not only wanted two children, but was going to have the same attitude toward parenting that I do, so somebody who was going to be totally okay with forcing our child to start taking piano lessons at age three, and also maybe computer science classes if we could **wrangle** it. So things like that, but I also wanted somebody who would go to **far-flung**, exotic places, like **Petra**, **Jordan**. I also wanted somebody who would weigh 20 pounds more than me at all times, regardless of what I weighed. 
	- shul /ʃuːl/ 猶太教堂 == synagogue
	- wrangle
		> 爭論/爭吵 |A dispute or argument, typically one that is long and complicated.| an insurance wrangle is holding up compensation payments
		> 爭論/爭吵 |Have a long, complicated dispute or argument.| the bureaucrats continue wrangling over the fine print
		> 放牧/看管 |Round up, herd, or take charge of (livestock)| the horses were wrangled early
	- far-flung 遙遠的/分佈廣的/廣泛的 == used to refer to places that are a great distance away, or something that is spread over a very large area
		> She has travelled to the most far-flung corners of the world.
	- Petra 佩特拉，約旦的一座古城，位於安曼南250公里處，隱藏在阿拉伯谷東側的一條狹窄的峽谷內
	- Jordan 約旦，是位於西亞的中東的國家

So I now have these 72 different data points, which, to be fair, is a lot. So what I did was, I went through and I prioritized that list. I broke it into a top tier and a second tier of points, and I ranked everything starting at 100 and going all the way down to 91, and listing things like I was looking for somebody who was really smart, who would challenge and stimulate me, and balancing that with a second tier and a second set of points. These things were also important to me but not necessarily deal-breakers. 

So once I had all this done, I then built a **scoring** system, because what I wanted to do was to sort of mathematically calculate whether or not I thought the guy that I found online would be a match with me. I figured there would be a minimum of 700 points before I would agree to email somebody or respond to an email message. For 900 points, I'd agree to go out on a date, and I wouldn't even consider any kind of relationship before somebody had crossed the 1,500 point threshold. 

Well, as it turns out, this worked pretty well. So I go back online now. I found Jewishdoc57 who's incredibly good-looking, incredibly well-spoken, he had hiked Mt. Fuji, he had walked along the Great Wall. He likes to travel as long as it doesn't involve a **cruise ship**. And I thought, I've done it! I've cracked the code. I have just found the Jewish Prince Charming of my family's dreams. 

There was only one problem: He didn't like me back. And I guess the one variable that I haven't considered is the competition. Who are all of the other women on these dating sites? I found SmileyGirl1978. She said she was a "Fun girl who is Happy and Outgoing." She listed her job as "teacher." She said she is "silly, nice and friendly." She likes to make people laugh "alot." 

At this moment I knew, clicking profile after profile that looked like this, that I needed to do some market research. So I created 10 fake male profiles. Now, before I lose all of you -- understand that I did this strictly to gather data about everybody else in the system. I didn't carry on crazy *Catfish-style relationships* with anybody. I really was just scraping their data. But I didn't want everybody's data. I only wanted data on the women who were going to be attracted to the type of man that I really, really wanted to marry. 
	- Catfish-style relationships == A relationship that exists only online, or otherwise without meeting, where one person is completely different than they presented themselves, often not even the same age or gender. 

When I released these men into the wild, I did follow some rules. So I didn't reach out to any woman first. I just waited to see who these profiles were going to attract, and mainly what I was looking at was two different data sets. So I was looking at **qualitative** data, so what was the humor, the tone, the voice, the communication style that these women shared in common? And also quantitative data, so what was the average length of their profile, how much time was spent between messages? What I was trying to get at here was that I figured, in person, I would be just as competitive as a SmileyGirl1978. I wanted to figure out how to maximize my own profile online. 
	- qualitative 值的 == Relating to, measuring, or measured by the quality of something rather than its quantity.

Well, one month later, I had a lot of data, and I was able to do another analysis. And as it turns out, content matters a lot. So smart people tend to write a lot -- 3,000, 4,000, 5,000 words about themselves, which may all be very, very interesting. The challenge here, though, is that the popular men and women are sticking to 97 words on average that are written very, very well, even though it may not seem like it all the time. The other hallmark of the people who do this well is that they're using non-specific language. So in my case, "*The English Patient*" is my most favorite movie ever, but it doesn't work to use that in a profile, because that's a superficial data point, and somebody may disagree and decide they don't want to go out because they didn't like sitting through the three-hour movie.
	? The other hallmark of the people who do this well is that they're using non-specific language 另一個特點是 他們絕不會寫的很具體 
	- The English Patient 英倫情人

Also, optimistic language matters a lot. So this is a word cloud highlighting the most popular words that were used by the most popular women, words like "fun" and "girl" and "love." And what I realized was not that I had to **dumb down** my own profile. Remember, I'm somebody who said that I speak fluent Japanese and I know JavaScript and I was okay with that. The difference is that it's about being more approachable and helping people understand the best way to reach out to you. 
	- dumb sth down 使…簡化/將…通俗化 == to make something simpler and easier for people to understand, especially in order to make it more popular
		> The media was accused of dumbing down the issue.

And as it turns out, timing is also really, really important. Just because you have access to somebody's mobile phone number or their instant message account and it's 2 o'clock in the morning and you happen to be awake, doesn't mean that that's a good time to communicate with those people. The popular women on these online sites spend an average of 23 hours in between each communication. And that's what we would normally do in the usual process of **courtship**. 
	- courtship
		> 求愛/求愛期 |A period during which a couple develop a romantic relationship before getting married.| he married his wife after a whirlwind courtship
		> 求婚 |Behavior designed to persuade someone to marry or develop a romantic relationship with one.| ‘his courtship of Emma was idyllically happy
		> 求偶 |The behavior of male birds and other animals aimed at attracting a mate.|
		> 嘗試獲得..支持 |The action of attempting to win a person's favour or support.| the country's courtship of foreign investors

And finally -- there were the photos. All of the women who were popular showed some skin. They all looked really great, which turned out to be in sharp contrast to what I had uploaded. 

Once I had all of this information, I was able to create a super profile, so it was still me, but it was me optimized now for this ecosystem. And as it turns out, I did a really good job. I was the most popular person online. 

And as it turns out, lots and lots of men wanted to date me. So I call my mom, I call my sister, I call my grandmother. I'm telling them about this fabulous news, and they say, "This is wonderful! How soon are you going out?" I said, "Actually, I'm not going to go out with anybody." Because remember, in my scoring system, they have to reach a minimum threshold of 700 points, and none of them have done that. They said, "What? You're still being too damn picky." 

Well, not too long after that, I found this guy, Thevenin, and he said that he was culturally Jewish, he said that his job was an *arctic baby seal hunter*, which I thought was very clever. He talked in detail about travel. He made a lot of really interesting cultural references. He looked and talked exactly like what I wanted, and immediately, he scored 850 points. It was enough for a date. 
	- arctic baby seal hunter 北極小海豹獵人

Three weeks later, we met up in person for what turned out to be a 14-hour-long conversation that went from coffee shop to restaurant to another coffee shop to another restaurant, and when he dropped me back off at my house that night I re-scored him.

Thought, you know what, this entire time, I haven't been picky enough. Well, a year and a half after that, we were non-cruise ship traveling through Petra, Jordan, when he got down on his **knee** and proposed. A year after that, we were married, and about a year and a half after that, our daughter, Petra, was born. 

Obviously, I'm having a fabulous life, so -- The question is, what does all of this mean for you? 

Well, as it turns out, there is an algorithm for love. It's just not the ones that we're being presented with online. In fact, it's something that you write yourself. So whether you're looking for a husband or a wife or you're trying to find your passion or you're trying to start a business, all you have to really do is figure out your own framework and play by your own rules, and feel free to be as picky as you want. 

Well, on my wedding day, I had a conversation again with my grandmother, and she said, "All right, maybe I was wrong. It looks like you did come up with a really, really great system. Now, your *matzah balls* ... They should be fluffy, not hard." And I'll take her advice on that. 
	- matzah balls 瑪索球(猶太丸子)