[Your smartphone is a civil rights issue](https://www.ted.com/talks/christopher_soghoian_your_smartphone_is_a_civil_rights_issue?referrer=playlist-who_are_the_hackers&language=en)

In the spring of 2016, a legal battle between Apple and the **Federal Bureau** of Investigation captured the world's attention. 
	- Federal Bureau of Investigation == FBI

Apple has built security features into its mobile products which protect data on its devices from everyone but the owner. That means that criminals, hackers and yes, even governments are all locked out. For Apple's customers, this is a great thing. But governments are not so happy. You see, Apple has made a **conscious** decision to get out of the **surveillance** business. Apple has tried to make surveillance as difficult as possible for governments and any other actors. 
	+ conscious /ˈkɒnʃəs/ 
		> 意識到的 |Aware of and responding to one's surroundings.| although I was in pain, I was conscious
		> 知道的 |Having knowledge of something.| we are conscious of the extent of the problem
		> 有……意識的 |Concerned with or worried about a particular matter.| they were growing increasingly security-conscious
		> 深思熟慮的/故意的 |(of an action or feeling) deliberate and intentional.| a conscious effort to walk properly
		> 神志清醒的 |(of the mind or a thought) directly perceptible to and under the control of the person concerned.| when you go to sleep it is only the conscious mind which shuts down
	- surveillance /səˈveɪl(ə)ns/ 監控 == Close observation, especially of a suspected spy or criminal.

There are really two smartphone operating systems in the global smartphone market: iOS and Android. iOS is made by Apple. Android is made by Google. Apple has spent a lot of time and money to make sure that its products are as secure as possible. Apple encrypts all data stored on iPhones by default, and text messages sent from one Apple customer to another Apple customer are encrypted by default without the user having to take any actions. 

What this means is that, if the police **seize** an iPhone and it has a password, they'll have a difficult time getting any data off of it, if they can do it at all. In contrast, the security of Android just really isn't as good. Android phones, or at least most of the Android phones that have been sold to consumers, do not encrypt data stored on the device by default, and the built-in text messaging app in Android does not use encryption. So if the police seize an Android phone, chances are, they'll be able to get all the data they want *off of that device*. 

Two smartphones from two of the biggest companies in the world; one that protects data by default, and one that doesn't. 

Apple is a seller of luxury goods. It dominates the high end of the market. And we would expect a manufacturer of luxury goods to have products that include more features. But not everyone can afford an iPhone. That's where Android really, really dominates: at the middle and low end of the market, smartphones for the billion and a half people who cannot or will not spend 600 dollars on a phone. 

But the dominance of Android has led to what I call the "digital security divide." That is, there is now increasingly a gap between the privacy and security of the rich, who can afford devices that secure their data by default, and of the poor, whose devices do very little to protect them by default. 

So, think of the average Apple customer: a banker, a lawyer, a doctor, a politician. These individuals now increasingly have smartphones in their pockets that encrypt their calls, their text messages, all the data on the device, without them doing really anything to secure their information. In contrast, the poor and the most vulnerable in our societies are using devices that leave them completely vulnerable to surveillance. 

In the United States, where I live, African-Americans are more likely to be seen as suspicious or more likely to be **profiled**, and are more likely to be targeted by the state with surveillance. But African-Americans are also **disproportionately** likely to use Android devices that do nothing at all to protect them from that surveillance. This is a problem. 
	- profile
		> 側面像 |An outline of something, especially a person's face, as seen from one side.| the man turned and she caught his profile
		> 給……畫側面像 |Represent in outline from one side.| he was standing motionless, profiled on the far side of the swimming pool
		> 剖面  |A vertical cross section of a structure.| skilfully made vessels with an S-shaped profile
		> 縱斷圖 |An outline of part of the earth's surface, e.g. the course of a river, as seen in a vertical section.| in soft rocks a profile drawn normally to the beach would show a concave form comparable with the long profile of a river
		> |A flat outline piece of scenery on stage.|
		> 簡介 |A short article giving a description of a person or organization.| a profile of a Texas tycoon
		> 簡要介紹 |Describe (a person or organization) in a short article.| he was to profile a backbench MP
		> 概況 |(on a social media website or application) a user's summary of their personal details or current situation.| he posted the pictures on his Facebook profile
		> 吸引程度 |The extent to which a person or organization attracts public notice.| raising the profile of women in industry
		> 量化分析表 |A graphical or other representation of information relating to particular characteristics of something, recorded in quantified form.| a sleep profile for someone on a shift system
		> 行為記錄 |A record of a person's psychological or behavioural characteristics, preferences, etc.| they had been using personal details to build customer profiles
		> be profiled 描出……的輪廓 |Have a specified shape in outline.| a proud bird profiled like a phoenix
		> 畫(形狀) |Shape (something), especially by means of a tool guided by a template.| I use my angle grinder all the time for profiling tiles

We must remember that surveillance is a tool. It's a tool used by those in power against those who have no power. And while I think it's absolutely great that companies like Apple are making it easy for people to encrypt, if the only people who can protect themselves from the **gaze** of the government are the rich and powerful, that's a problem. And it's not just a privacy or a cybersecurity problem. It's a *civil rights* problem. 
	- civil rights 公民權 == the rights that each person has in a society, whatever their race, sex, or religion

So the lack of default security in Android is not just a problem for the poor and vulnerable users who are depending on these devices. This is actually a problem for our democracy. I'll explain what I mean. 

Modern social movements rely on technology -- from *Black Lives Matter* to the Arab Spring to *Occupy Wall Street*. The organizers of these movements and the members of these movements increasingly communicate and coordinate with smartphones. And so, naturally governments that feel threatened by these movements will also target the organizers and their smartphones. Now, it's quite possible that a future Martin Luther King or a Mandela or a Gandhi will have an iPhone and be protected from government surveillance. But *chances are*, they'll probably have a cheap, $20 Android phone in their pocket. 
	- Black Lives Matter 黑人的命也是命，是一場國際維權運動，起源於非裔美國人社區，抗議針對黑人的暴力和系統性歧視
	- Occupy Wall Street 佔領華爾街，是一連串主要發生在紐約市的集會活動，由加拿大反消費主義組織廣告克星發起
	- (the) chances are 很有可能 == it is likely
		> Chances are (that) they'll be late anyway.

And so if we do nothing to address the digital security divide, if we do nothing to ensure that everyone in our society gets the same benefits of encryption and is equally able to protect themselves from surveillance by the state, not only will the poor and vulnerable be exposed to surveillance, but future civil rights movements may be crushed before they ever reach their full potential. 

Thank you. 

Helen Walters: Chris, thank you so much. I have a question for you. We saw recently in the press that Mark Zuckerberg from Facebook covers over his camera and does something with his headphone mic *jack*. So I wanted to ask you a personal question, which is: Do you do that? And, on behalf of everyone here, particularly myself, Should we be doing that? Should we be covering these things? 
	- jack
		> 千斤頂 |A device for lifting heavy objects, especially one for raising the axle of a motor vehicle off the ground so that a wheel can be changed or the underside inspected.|
		> J牌/傑克 |A playing card bearing a representation of a soldier, page, or knave, normally ranking next below a queen.|
		> 插孔/插座 |jack socket|
		> 槌球的小白球 |A small white ball in bowls, at which the players aim.|
		> jacks |A game played by tossing and catching small round pebbles or star-shaped pieces of metal or plastic.|
		> 普通人 |Jack; Used to typify an ordinary man.| he had that world-weary look of the working Jack who'd seen everything
		> 不知名的人 |Used as a form of address to a man whose name is not known.|
		> 伐木工人 |A lumberjack.|
		> 偵探/警察 |A detective or police officer.|
		> 敲鐘者 |The figure of a man striking the bell on a clock.|
		> 船首旗 |A small version of a national flag flown at the bow of a vessel in harbour to indicate its nationality.| At daylight we hoisted the jack for a pilot and a Delaware pilot came off, Boat C, but couldn't take us to New York.
		> 錢 |Money.|
		> |A device for turning a spit.|
		> |A part of the mechanism in a spinet or harpsichord that connects a key to its corresponding string and causes the string to be plucked when the key is pressed down.|
		> 闊步鰺 |A marine fish that is typically laterally compressed with a row of large spiky scales along each side, important in many places as food or game fish.|
		> 公隼 |The male of various animals, especially a merlin or (US) an ass.|
		> 公騾/公畜  |Used in names of animals that are smaller than similar kinds, e.g. jack snipe.|
		> |jack shit; nothing or anything (at all).|
		> |A sleeveless padded tunic worn by foot soldiers.|
		> 偷 |Take (something) illicitly; steal.| what's wrong is to jack somebody's lyrics and not acknowledge the fact
		> 搶劫 |Rob (someone)| they told police they'd been prowling the streets looking to jack someone

Christopher Soghoian: Putting a sticker -- actually, I like Band-Aids, because you can remove them and put them back on whenever you want to make a call or a Skype call. Putting a sticker over your web cam is probably the best thing you can do for your privacy *in terms of bang for buck*. There really is malware, malicious software out there that can take over your web cam, even without the light turning on. This is used by criminals. This is used by stalkers. You can buy $19.99 "spy on your ex-girlfriend" software online. It's really terrifying. And then, of course, it's used by governments. And there's obviously a sexual violence component to this, which is that this kind of surveillance can be used most effectively against women and other people who can be shamed in our society. Even if you think you have nothing to hide, at the very least, if you have children, teenagers in your lives, make sure you put a sticker on their camera and protect them. 
	- bang for the buck 值回票價 == value in return for your money
		> They’re very careful when they spend money, and they’re going to insist on getting the most bang for their buck.

HW: Wow. Thank you so much. CS: Thank you. 