[Cracking Stuxnet, a 21st-century cyber weapon](https://www.ted.com/talks/ralph_langner_cracking_stuxnet_a_21st_century_cyberweapon?referrer=playlist-who_are_the_hackers&language=en)

The idea behind the Stuxnet computer **worm** is actually quite simple. We don't want **Iran** to get the bomb. Their major asset for developing nuclear weapons is the **Natanz uranium enrichment facility**. The gray boxes that you see, these are real-time control systems. Now if we manage to compromise these systems that control drive speeds and **valves**, we can actually cause a lot of problems with the **centrifuge**. The gray boxes don't run Windows software; they are a completely different technology. But if we manage to place a good Windows virus on a notebook that is used by a maintenance engineer to configure this gray box, then *we are in business*. And this is the **plot** behind Stuxnet. 
	- Iran 伊朗，1501年之前很長一段歷史時間稱波斯，位於西亞，為中東國家
	- Natanz 納坦茲，是伊朗伊斯法罕省的一個鎮
	- uranium enrichment facility Natanz 鈾料濃縮工廠
	- uranium /jʊˈreɪnɪəm/ 鈾
	- enrichment
		> 充實/豐富 |The action of improving or enhancing the quality or value of something.| enrichment of the soil for more plant growth
		> 鈾濃縮 |The action of increasing the proportion of a particular isotope in an element, especially that of the isotope U-235 in uranium so as to make it suitable for use in a nuclear reactor or weapon.| a centrifuge plant for uranium enrichment
		> 富有 |The process of making someone wealthy or wealthier.| the policy was denounced as a means of enrichment of a small elite
	- valve /valv/ 
		> 閥/活門 |A device for controlling the passage of fluid or air through a pipe, duct, etc., especially an automatic device allowing movement in one direction only.| a valve shuts off the flow from the boiler when the water is hot enough
		> 真空管 |A cylindrical mechanism in a brass instrument which, when depressed or turned, admits air into different sections of tubing and so extends the range of available notes.|
		> 活栓 |A membranous fold in a hollow organ or tubular structure, such as a blood vessel or the digestive tract, which maintains the flow of the contents in one direction by closing in response to any pressure from reverse flow.| the aortic valve
		> |Each of the halves of the hinged shell of a bivalve mollusc or brachiopod, or of the parts of the compound shell of a barnacle.|
		> 瓣/瓣膜 |Each of the halves or sections into which a dry fruit (especially a pod or capsule) dehisces.|
	- centrifuge /ˈsɛntrɪfjuːdʒ/ 
		> 離心機 |A machine with a rapidly rotating container that applies centrifugal force to its contents, typically to separate fluids of different densities (e.g. cream from milk) or liquids from solids.|
		> 使受離心作用 |Subject to the action of a centrifuge.|
		> 用離心機分離 |Separate by centrifuge.| the black liquid is centrifuged into oil and water
	- be in business 準備就緒 == to be ready and able to start doing something that you planned
		> Once we get the computer installed we'll be in business.
	- plot
		> 陰謀/祕密計畫 |A plan made in secret by a group of people to do something illegal or harmful.| there's a plot to overthrow the government
		> 密謀/策劃 |Secretly make plans to carry out (an illegal or harmful action)| the two men are serving sentences for plotting a bomb campaign
		> 情節 |The main events of a play, novel, film, or similar work, devised and presented by the writer as an interrelated sequence.|  the plot consists almost entirely of a man and woman falling in love
		> 設計情節 |Devise the sequence of events in (a play, novel, film, or similar work)| she would plot a chapter as she drove
		> 小塊土地 |A small piece of ground marked out for a purpose such as building or gardening.| a vegetable plot
		> 關係圖 |A graph showing the relation between two variables.|
		> 平面圖/標繪圖 |A diagram, chart, or map.|
		> 標繪 |Mark (a route or position) on a chart.| he started to plot lines of ancient sites
		> 繪製……的圖 |Mark out or allocate (points) on a graph.| the dependent variable's points are plotted on the Y axis
		> 使在圖表上..成曲線 |Make (a curve) by marking out a number of points on a graph.| a cooling curve is plotted and the freezing point determined
		> 以圖表說明 |Illustrate by use of a graph.| it is possible to plot fairly closely the rate at which recruitment of girls increased

So we start with a Windows **dropper**. The **payload** goes onto the gray box, **damages** the centrifuge, and the **Iranian** nuclear program is delayed -- mission accomplished. That's easy, huh? I want to tell you how we found that out. When we started our research on Stuxnet six months ago, it was completely unknown what the purpose of this thing was. The only thing that was known is it's very, very complex on the Windows part, the dropper part, used multiple zero-day vulnerabilities. And it seemed to want to do something with these gray boxes, these real-time control systems. So that got our attention, and we started a lab project where we infected our environment with Stuxnet and checked this thing out. And then some very funny things happened. Stuxnet behaved like a **lab rat** that didn't like our cheese -- **sniffed**, but didn't want to eat. Didn't make sense to me. And after we experimented with different flavors of cheese, I realized, well, this is a *directed attack*. It's completely directed. The dropper is **prowling** actively on the gray box if a specific configuration is found, and even if the actual program code that it's trying to infect is actually running on that target. And if not, Stuxnet does nothing.
	- Windows dropper Windows釋放程式
	- dropper
		> 滴管 |A short glass tube with a rubber bulb at one end and a tiny hole at the other, for measuring out drops of medicine or other liquids.| oils sold in bottles with a rubber-tipped dropper
		> |A subsidiary line or loop of filament attached to a main line or leader.| a dropper line
	- payload
		> 裝載量 |The part of a vehicle's load, especially an aircraft's, from which revenue is derived; passengers and cargo.|
		> 太空船所裝載的配備、人員或衛星 |Equipment, personnel, or satellites carried by a spacecraft.|
		> 火箭或人造衛星所載彈頭 |An explosive warhead carried by an aircraft or missile.|
		> 資料 |The actual information or message in transmitted data, as opposed to automatically generated metadata.|
		> 電腦病毒的效果 |The effects of a virus on a computer system.|
	- Iranian (adj)伊朗的/伊朗人的, 伊朗語系的 (n)伊朗人, 伊朗語系
	- sniff
		> 嗅/聞 |Draw up air audibly through the nose to detect a smell, to stop it running, or to express contempt.| his dog sniffed at my trousers
		> 用力吸/用鼻吸 |Draw in (a scent, substance, or air) through the nose.| Miranda sniffed the heavy perfume of the lilies
		> 嗅聞聲 |An act or sound of sniffing.| he gave a sniff of disapproval
		> 吸入量 |An amount of air or other substance taken up by sniffing.| his drug use was confined to a sniff of amyl nitrite
		> 徵兆 |A hint or sign.| they're off at the first sniff of trouble
		> 小改變 |A small chance.| the Olympic hosts will at least get a sniff at a medal
	- directed attack 指向性攻擊
	- prowl /praʊl/ 
		> 潛行 |(of a person or animal) move about restlessly and stealthily, especially in search of prey.| lions prowling in the bush
		> 潛行 |An act of prowling.| I met her once on one of my off-duty bookshop prowls

So that really got my attention, and we started to work on this *nearly around the clock*, because I thought, "Well, we don't know what the target is. It could be, let's say for example, a U.S. power plant, or a chemical plant in Germany. So we better find out what the target is soon." So we extracted and decompiled the attack code, and we discovered that it's structured in two digital bombs -- a smaller one and a bigger one. And we also saw that they are very professionally engineered by people who obviously had all insider information. They knew all the bits and bites that they had to attack. They probably even know the **shoe size** of the operator. So they know everything. 
	- we started to work on this *nearly around the clock*  我們開始沒日沒夜的進行研究
	- round/around the clock 日以繼夜地 == all day and all night
		> Doctors and nurses worked round the clock to help those injured in the train crash.
		> She needed round-the-clock nursing.

And if you have heard that the dropper of Stuxnet is complex and high-tech, let me tell you this: the payload is **rocket** science. It's way above everything that we have ever seen before. Here you see a sample of this actual attack code. We are talking about -- around about 15,000 lines of code. Looks pretty much like old-style assembly language. And I want to tell you how we were able to make sense out of this code. So what we were looking for is, first of all, system function calls, because we know what they do. 
	? the payload is **rocket** science這病毒根本就像是火箭科技 

And then we were looking for timers and data structures and trying to relate them to the real world -- to potential real world targets. So we do need target theories that we can prove or disprove. In order to get target theories, we remember that it's definitely hardcore **sabotage**, it must be a high-value target and it is most likely located in Iran, because that's where most of the infections had been reported. Now you don't find several thousand targets in that area. It basically boils down to the Bushehr nuclear power plant and to the Natanz *fuel enrichment plant*. 
	- hardcore
		> 中堅份子 |The most active, committed, or strict members of a group or movement; hard core|
		> 致力於..的 |Highly committed in one's support for or dedication to something.|
		> 極端..的例子 |Denoting an extreme or intense example of something.|
		> 某種極端的色情影片 |Pornography of a very explicit or extreme kind.|
		> 極端色情影片的 |Denoting or relating to pornography of a very explicit or extreme kind.| online hardcore porn
		> |Denoting or relating to a type of experimental popular music that is typically characterized by high volume 
		> |Popular music that is experimental in nature and typically characterized by high volume and aggressive presentation.|
	- sabotage /ˈsabətɑːʒ/ 
		> 蓄意破壞 |Deliberately destroy, damage, or obstruct (something), especially for political or military advantage.| power lines from South Africa were sabotaged by rebel forces
		> 蓄意破壞 |The action of sabotaging something.| a coordinated campaign of sabotage
	- fuel enrichment plant 鈾料濃縮工廠 ==  uranium enrichment facility

So I told my assistant, "Get me a list of all centrifuge and power plant experts from our client base." And I *phoned them up* and *picked their brain in an effort to* match their **expertise** with what we found in code and data. And that worked pretty well. So we were able to associate the small digital **warhead** with the **rotor** control. The rotor is that moving part within the centrifuge, that black object that you see. And if you manipulate the speed of this rotor, you are actually able to crack the rotor and eventually even have the centrifuge explode. What we also saw is that the goal of the attack was really to do it slowly and creepy -- obviously in an effort to drive maintenance engineers crazy, that they would not be able to figure this out quickly. 
	? And I *phoned them up* and *picked their brain in an effort to* match their expertise with what we found in code and data. 我一個個親自去電，聽取他們的意見，努力把他們的專業知識，和我們在代碼與資料找到的訊息做比對 
	- phone (sb) up 給..把電話 == to call someone on the phone:
		> I'll phone up and see if they have any tickets left.
		>  Clients often phone me up at inconvenient times.
	- pick someone’s brain 尋求..的建議 == to ask someone's advice about a subject the person knows a lot about
		> Can I pick your brain about how you got rid of those weeds?
	- in an effort to 為了 == in an attempt to 
	- expertise /ˌɛkspəːˈtiːz/ 專門知識/專門技術 == Expert skill or knowledge in a particular field.
	- warhead 彈頭 == The explosive head of a missile, torpedo, or similar weapon.
	- rotor
		> 轉子 |A hub with a number of radiating aerofoils that is rotated in an approximately horizontal plane to provide the lift for a helicopter or other rotary wing aircraft.|
		> 轉片 |The rotating assembly in a turbine.|
		> 旋轉輪 |The armature of an electric motor.|
		> 回轉軸 |The rotating part of the distributor of an internal combustion engine which successively makes and breaks electrical contacts so that each spark plug fires in turn.|
		> 轉片 |The rotating container in a centrifuge.|
		> 旋轉翼 |The rotary winder of a clockwork watch.|
		> 氣旋 |A large eddy in which the air circulates about a horizontal axis, especially in the lee of a mountain.| a rotor cloud

The big digital warhead -- *we had a shot* at this by looking very closely at data and data structures. So for example, the number 164 really stands out in that code; you can't overlook it. I started to research scientific literature on how these centrifuges are actually built in Natanz and found they are structured in what is called a **cascade**, and each cascade holds 164 centrifuges. So that made sense, that was a match. 
	- *we had a shot* at this by looking very closely at data and data structures. 我們試著仔細查看它的資料與資料結構
	- have a shot at 嘗試/試著 == to attempt == to make a try at
	- cascade
		> 小瀑布 |A small waterfall, typically one of several that fall in stages down a steep rocky slope.| the waterfall raced down in a series of cascades
		> 傾瀉 |A mass of something that falls or hangs in copious quantities.| a cascade of pink bougainvillea
		> 大量 |A large number or amount of something occurring at the same time.| a cascade of anti-war literature
		> 傾瀉 |(of water) pour downwards rapidly and in large quantities.| water was cascading down the stairs
		> 資訊傳遞 |A process whereby something, typically information or knowledge, is successively passed on.| the greater the number of people who are well briefed, the wider the cascade effect
		> 傳遞 |Pass (something) on to a succession of others.| teachers who are able to cascade their experience effectively
		> 串聯 |A succession of devices or stages in a process, each of which triggers or initiates the next.|
		> 串聯 |Arrange (a number of devices or objects) in a series or sequence.|

And it even got better. These centrifuges in Iran are subdivided into 15, what is called, stages. And guess what we found in the attack code? An almost identical structure. So again, that was a real good match. And this gave us very high confidence for what we were looking at. Now don't get me wrong here, it didn't go like this. These results have been obtained over several weeks of really hard labor. And we often went into just a dead end and had to recover. 

Anyway, so we figured out that both digital warheads were actually aiming at *one and the same* target, but from different angles. The small warhead is taking one cascade, and **spinning** up the rotors and slowing them down, and the big warhead is talking to six cascades and manipulating **valves**. So in all, we are very confident that we have actually determined what the target is. It is Natanz, and it is only Natanz. So we don't have to worry that other targets might be hit by Stuxnet. 
	- one and the same 同一個的 == the same thing or person
		> I was amazed to discover that Mary's husband and Jane's son are one and the same (person).

Here's some very cool stuff that we saw -- really **knocked my socks off**. Down there is the gray box, and on the top you see the centrifuges. Now what this thing does is it intercepts the input values from sensors -- so for example, from pressure sensors and **vibration** sensors -- and it provides legitimate program code, which is still running during the attack, with fake input data. And as a matter of fact, this fake input data is actually **prerecorded** by Stuxnet. So it's just like from the Hollywood movies where during the **heist**, the observation camera is fed with prerecorded video. That's cool, huh? 
	- blow/knock one's socks off 發現非常有趣/發現非常傑出 == If something knocks your socks off, you find it extremely exciting or good
		> I'm going to take you to a restaurant that'll knock your socks off.
	- vibration /vʌɪˈbreɪʃ(ə)n/ 
	- heist /hʌɪst/ 
		> 搶劫 |A robbery.| a diamond heist
		> 偷 |Steal.| he heisted a Pontiac

The idea here is obviously not only to fool the operators in the control room. It actually is much more dangerous and aggressive. The idea is to **circumvent** a digital safety system. We need digital safety systems where a human operator could not act quick enough. So for example, in a power plant, when your big steam **turbine** gets too over speed, you must open relief valves within a millisecond. Obviously, this cannot be done by a human operator. So this is where we need digital safety systems. And when they are compromised, then real bad things can happen. Your plant can blow up. And neither your operators nor your safety system will notice it. That's scary. 
	- circumvent /səːkəmˈvɛnt/ 
	- turbine /ˈtəːbʌɪn/ 渦輪

But it gets worse. And this is very important, what I'm going to say. Think about this: this attack is generic. It doesn't have anything to do, in specifics, with centrifuges, with uranium enrichment. So it would work as well, for example, in a power plant or in an automobile factory. It is generic. And you don't have -- as an attacker -- you don't have to deliver this payload by a USB stick, as we saw it in the case of Stuxnet. You could also use conventional worm technology for spreading. Just spread it as wide as possible. And if you do that, what you end up with is a cyber weapon of mass destruction. That's the consequence that we have to face. So unfortunately, the biggest number of targets for such attacks are not in the Middle East. They're in the United States and Europe and in Japan. So all of the green areas, these are your target-rich environments. We have to face the consequences, and we better start to prepare right now. 

Thanks. 

Chris Anderson: I've got a question. Ralph, it's been quite widely reported that people assume that **Mossad** is the main **entity** behind this. Is that your opinion? 
	- Mossad 以色列情報及特殊使命局
	- entity /ˈɛntɪti/ 

Ralph Langner: Okay, you really want to hear that? Yeah. Okay. My opinion is that the Mossad is involved, but that the leading force is not **Israel**. So the leading force behind that is the cyber superpower. There is only one, and that's the United States -- fortunately, fortunately. Because otherwise, our problems would even be bigger. 
	- Israel 以色列，是位於西亞的主權國家

CA: Thank you for scaring the living **daylights** out of us. Thank you, Ralph. 
	? Thank you for scaring the living **daylights** out of us 謝謝你把我們都給嚇壞了
	- scare the (living) daylights out of sb 把..嚇壞 == to frighten someone very much
		> You scared the daylights out of me, yelling like that.