[How (and why) Russia hacked the US election](https://www.ted.com/talks/laura_galante_how_to_exploit_democracy?referrer=playlist-who_are_the_hackers&language=en)

Let's say you **despise** Western democracy. Democracy, *in all its trappings*, free elections, town halls, endless debates about the proper role of government. Too *messy*, too unpredictable, too *constraining* for your taste. And the way these democracies **band together** and lecture everyone else about individual rights and freedoms -- it gets under your skin. 
	- despise /dɪˈspʌɪz/ 鄙視 == Feel contempt or a deep repugnance for.
	? Democracy, *in all its trappings*, free elections, town halls, endless debates about the proper role of government  民主，佈滿了陷阱、從投票自由、市政廳、到對政府角色永無止境的爭論
	* messy
		> 髒的 |Untidy or dirty.|
		> 麻煩的 |Generating or involving mess.| stripping wallpaper can be a messy, time-consuming job
		> 混亂的 |(of a situation) confused and difficult to deal with.|
	- band together 攜手/團結/聯合 == to join together as a group in order to be able to do something better
		> We decided to band together and organize a protest.

So what to do about it? You can *call out* the **hypocrisy** and failures of Western democracies and explain how your way is better, but that's never really worked for you. What if you could get the people whose support is the very foundation of these democracies to start questioning the system? Make the idea occur in their own minds that democracy and its institutions are failing them, their **elite** are corrupt **puppet** masters and the country they knew is **in free fall**. To do that, you'll need to **infiltrate** the information **spheres** of these democracies. You'll need to turn their most powerful asset -- an open mind -- into their greatest vulnerability. You'll need people to question the truth. 
	- call out sth
		> 大喊 |to speak loudly:| He called out, but she didn't hear him.
		> 下令 |to officially order that a military unit become ready for action| The governor called out the National Guard to prepare for the hurricane.
	- hypocrisy /hɪˈpɒkrɪsi/ 偽善 == The practice of claiming to have higher standards or more noble beliefs than is the case.
	- puppet master 恐致者 == a person, group, or country that covertly controls another.
		> the puppetmaster behind the current administration
	- free fall
		> 自由下落/自由落體 |an occasion when something or someone falls quickly under the influence of gravity|
		> 驟降/迅速下降 |the process of failing or losing value or strength quickly and continuously| Only massive changes in government policies will prevent the peso going into free fall.
	- infiltrate /ˈɪnfɪltreɪt/ 

Now, you'll be familiar of hacking and leaks that happened in 2016. One was the **Democratic National Committee's** networks, and the personal email accounts of its **staff**, later released on **WikiLeaks**. After that, various online personas, like a supposed **Romanian** cybercriminal who didn't speak Romanian, aggressively pushed news of these leaks to journalists. The media took the bait. They were consumed by how much the DNC hated Bernie. At the time, it was that narrative that far outshined the news that a group of Russian government sponsored hackers who we called "Advanced Persistent Threat 28," or "APT28" for short, was carrying out these operations against the US. 
	- Democratic National Committee 民主黨全國委員會 == DNC
	- Romanian (n)羅馬尼亞人, 羅馬尼亞語 (adj)羅馬尼亞的/羅馬尼亞人的, 羅馬尼亞語
	? They were consumed by how much the DNC hated Bernie 他们的關注都被吸引到了民主黨對伯尼·桑德斯的恨上
	- Bernie 伯尼·桑德斯，猶太人，美國聯邦參議員，代表佛蒙特州。他是美國國會史上任期最長的無黨派獨立議員，並一直保留無黨派身份，但一直與民主黨黨團合作
	? At the time, it was that narrative that far outshined the news that a group of Russian government sponsored hackers 在那時，有一個故事，比新聞本身更受關注：一群俄羅斯官方駭客

And there was no shortage of evidence. This group of Russian government hackers hadn't just appeared out of nowhere in 2016. We had started tracking this group back in 2014. And the tools that APT28 used to compromise its victims' networks demonstrated a *thoughtful*, well-resourced effort that had taken place for now over a decade in Moscow's time zone from about 9 am to 6 pm. APT28 loved to prey on the emails and contacts of journalists in Chechnya, the Georgian government, eastern European defense attachés -- all targets with an undeniable interest to the Russian government. 
	? a *thoughtful*, well-resourced effort that had taken place for now over a decade in Moscow's time zone from about 9 am to 6 pm. 其背後投入的長期精力和資源，這一項目已經進行了超過十年， 在莫斯科時區，十年如一日， 駭客們每天從早上九點， 工作到到下午六點
	- prey on 傷害/欺騙/坑害 == to hurt or deceive a group of people, especially people who are weak or can easily be hurt or deceived
		> He would attack at night, preying on lone women in their twenties or thirties.
		> It's particularly contemptible that these sort of people prey on the elderly.
	- thoughtful
		> 深思的 |Absorbed in or involving thought.| brows drawn together in thoughtful consideration
		> 細心的 |Showing careful consideration or attention.| her work is thoughtful and provocative
		> 體貼的 |Showing consideration for the needs of other people.| he was attentive and thoughtful
	- Chechnya 車臣共和國，是俄羅斯聯邦北高加索聯邦管區下轄的一個自治共和國
	- attachés /əˈtaʃeɪ/ 專員 == A person on the staff of an ambassador having a specialized area of responsibility.

We weren't the only ones onto this. Governments, research teams across the world, were coming to similar conclusions and observing the same types of operations. But what Russia was doing in 2016 went far beyond espionage. The DNC hack was just one of many where stolen data was posted online accompanied by a **sensational** narrative, then amplified in social media for lightning-speed adoption by the media. This didn't ring the alarm bells that a nation-state was trying to interfere with the credibility of another's internal affairs. 
	- sensational
		> 引起轟動的 |Causing great public interest and excitement.| a sensational murder trial
		> 引起轟動的 |Presenting information in a way that is intended to provoke public interest and excitement, at the expense of accuracy.| cheap sensational periodicals
		> 非常好的/吸引人的 |Very good indeed; very impressive or attractive.| you look sensational
	? This didn't ring the alarm bells that a nation-state was trying to interfere with the credibility of another's internal affairs. 然而這並沒有響起人們的警鐘：一個國家正試著干預另一個國家的內政。 

So why, collectively, did we not see this coming? Why did it take months before Americans understood that they were under a state-sponsored information attack? The easy answer is politics. The Obama Administration was caught in a perfect catch-22. By raising the **specter** that the Russian government was interfering in the US presidential campaign, the Administration risked appearing to meddle in the campaign itself. But the better answer, I think, is that the US and the West were utterly unequipped to recognize and respond to a modern information operation, despite the fact that the US had wielded information with **devastating** success in an era not so long ago. 
	? The Obama Administration was caught in a perfect catch-22. 奧巴馬陷入了一個完美的困境
	- Catch-22 第22條軍規，是美國作家約瑟夫·海勒的代表作。作品是一部長篇小說，寫於1961年。
	- catch-22 左右兩難/進退維谷 == a situation in which there are only two possibilities, and you cannot do either because each depends on having done the other first
		> But it is a catch-22 situation - you can't get people without funding, but you can't get funding without the people there in the first place.
	? By raising the specter that the Russian government was interfering in the US presidential campaign, the Administration risked appearing to meddle in the campaign itself. 通過讓民眾對俄羅斯政府正在干預美國總統大選一事感到焦慮， 行政當局可能會使自己看起來像是在干擾大選
	- specter /ˈspektər/ 
		> 幽靈 |A ghost|
		> 陰影/恐怖之物 |Something widely feared as a possible unpleasant or dangerous occurrence.| the specter of nuclear holocaust

Look, so while the US and the West spent the last 20 years *caught up* in cybersecurity -- what networks to harden, which infrastructure to **deem** critical, how to set up armies of cyber warriors and cyber commands -- Russia was thinking in far more consequential terms. Before the first iPhone even hit the shelf, the Russian government understood the risks and the opportunity that technology provided and the inter-communication and instant communication it provided us. 
	- catch up
		> 達到同樣品質或水準/趕上 |to reach the same quality or standard as someone or something else| Will Western industry ever catch up with Japanese innovations?a
		> 趕工 |Do tasks which one should have done earlier.| he normally used the afternoons to catch up on paperwork
		> 了解或討論最新情況 |to learn or discuss the latest news| Let's go for a coffee - I need to catch up on all the gossip.
	? what networks to harden, which infrastructure to deem critical, how to set up armies of cyber warriors and cyber commands 什麼樣的網路需要強化， 哪些基礎設施是關鍵， 怎樣建立網路戰士的 軍隊和網路指令
	+ deem 認為 == Regard or consider in a specified way.

As our realities are increasingly based on the information that we're consuming at the **palm** of our hand and from the news **feeds** that we're scanning and the hashtags and stories that we see trending, the Russian government was the first to recognize how this evolution had turned your mind into the most exploitable device on the planet. And your mind is particularly exploitable if you're **accustomed** to an **unfettered** flow of information, now increasingly **curated** to your own tastes. This **panorama** of information that's so interesting to you gives a state, or anyone for that matter, a perfect back door into your mind. 
	- palm /pɑːm/ 
		> 棕梠 |An unbranched evergreen tree of tropical and warm regions, with a crown of very long feathered or fan-shaped leaves| 
		> 手掌 |The inner surface of the hand between the wrist and fingers.|
		> 把……藏於手中 |Conceal (a small object) in the hand, especially as part of a trick or theft.| he would spin wild tales while palming your wristwatch
		> 用手掌拍開 |(of a goalkeeper) deflect (the ball) with the palm of the hand.| Jason palmed the ball out of danger
	- in the palm of one's hand 完全在..的掌控之中 == under your complete control
		> The audience was fascinated by his performance – he had them in the palm of his hand.
	? And your mind is particularly exploitable if you're **accustomed** to an **unfettered** flow of information, now increasingly **curated** to your own tastes.  當你習慣於現在不受監管又引人入勝的信息流時，你的思想格外容易被人利用
	- unfetter 釋放/使自由 == Release from restraint or inhibition.
	- curate /ˈkjʊərət/ 
		> 副牧師/助理牧師 |A member of the clergy engaged as assistant to a vicar, rector, or parish priest.|
		> 策劃 |Select, organize, and look after the items in (a collection or exhibition)| both exhibitions are curated by the Centre's director
		> |Select the performers or performances that will feature in (an arts event or programme)| in past years the festival has been curated by the likes of David Bowie
		> 策劃 |Select, organize, and present (online content, merchandise, information, etc.), typically using professional or expert knowledge.| people not only want to connect when using a network but they also enjoy getting credit for sharing or curating information
	- panorama /panəˈrɑːmə/ 

It's this new brand of state-sponsored information operations that can be that much more successful, more **insidious**, and harder for the target audience -- that includes the media -- to decipher and characterize. If you can get a hashtag trending on Twitter, or **chum** the waters with fake news directed to audiences **primed** to receive it, or drive journalists to **dissect** terabytes of email for a cent of **impropriety** -- all tactics used in Russian operations -- then you've got a shot at effectively camouflaging your operations in the mind of your target. This is what Russia's long called "reflexive control." It's the ability to use information on someone else so that they make a decision on their own accord that's favorable to you. This is nation-state-grade image control and perception management, and it's conducted by any means, with any tools, network-based or otherwise, that will achieve it. 
	+ insidious /ɪnˈsɪdɪəs/ 
	? If you can get a hashtag trending on Twitter, or **chum** the waters with fake news directed to audiences **primed** to receive it, or drive journalists to **dissect** terabytes of email for a cent of **impropriety** -- all tactics used in Russian operations -- then you've got a shot at effectively camouflaging your operations in the mind of your target. 果你能使一個標籤 在推特上流行起來， 或者用假新聞收買網路水軍， 針對著準備接收這些信息的觀眾，或者讓記者們解析海量的郵件來尋找哪怕是一分一毫的不誠實── 這都是被俄羅斯政府利用過的策略， 這樣，你就能夠高效地 改變你目標的思想
	- chum
		> 好友 |A close friend.| she shared the cake with her chums
		> 男生 |Used as a friendly or familiar form of address between men or boys.| it's your own fault, chum
		> 結成好朋友 |Form a friendship with someone.| his sister chummed up with Sally
		> 魚餌/誘餌 |Chopped fish and other material thrown overboard as angling bait.| the anglers anchored down and put out their blood chum
		> 魚體內的廢物 |Refuse from fish, especially that remaining after oil has been expressed.|
		> 魚餌用的魚 |Fish using chum as bait.|
		> 鉤吻鮭 |A large North Pacific salmon that is commercially important as a food fish.|
	+ prime
		> 主要的 |Of first importance; main.| a nurse's prime concern is the well-being of the patient
		> 優質的/一流的/最合適的 | Of the best possible quality; excellent.| prime cuts of meat
		> 互質的 |(of a number) divisible only by itself and unity (e.g. 2, 3, 5, 7, 11).|
		> 質數 |A prime number.|
		> 巔峰/全盛時期/青春 |The state or time of greatest vigour or success in a person's life.| you're in the prime of life
		> 使準備好/為..事先提供消息 |Prepare (someone) for a situation, typically by supplying them with relevant information.| the sentries had been primed to admit him without challenge
		> 使準備好 |Make (something) ready for use or action.|
		> 裝填火藥 |Prepare (a firearm or explosive device) for firing or detonation.|
		> 塗底漆 |Cover (a surface) with a primer.|
		> 啟動(幫補) |Pour or spray liquid into (a pump) before starting in order to seal the moving parts and facilitate its operation.|
		> 上油 |Inject extra fuel into (the cylinder or carburettor of an internal combustion engine) in order to facilitate starting.|
	- dissect
		> 解剖 |Methodically cut up (a body or plant) in order to study its internal parts.| an animal's eye can be easily dissected
		> 仔細分析 |Analyse (a text or idea) in minute detail.| he dissected the Prime Minister's statement and revealed the truth behind it
	- impropriety /ˌɪmprəˈprʌɪəti/ 不恰當的行為 == Failure to observe standards of honesty or modesty; improper behaviour or character.

Take this for another example. In early February 2014, a few weeks before Russia would invade **Crimea**, a phone call is posted on YouTube. In it, there's two US diplomats. They sound like they're playing **kingmaker** in **Ukraine**, and worse, they curse the EU for its lack of speed and leadership in resolving the crisis. The media covers the phone call, and then the **ensuing** diplomatic **backlash** leaves Washington and Europe **reeling**. And it creates a **fissured** response and a **feckless** attitude towards Russia's *land grab* in Ukraine. Mission accomplished. 
	- Crimea /krʌɪˈmiːə/ 克里米亞半島
	- kingmaker 擁立國王者 == A person who brings leaders to power through the exercise of political influence.
	- Ukraine /juːˈkreɪn/ 烏克蘭，烏克蘭是歐洲面積第二大的國家，僅次於俄羅斯
	? The media covers the phone call, and then the **ensuing** diplomatic **backlash** leaves Washington and Europe **reeling**. 媒體報導了這個電話，最後的外交反作用 使得華盛頓和歐洲失去平衡
	- ensuing 接連發生的 == Occurring afterwards or as a result.
	- backlash
		> 強烈反應/強烈反對 |A strong negative reaction by a large number of people, especially to a social or political development.| a public backlash against racism
		> 後座力 |Recoil arising between parts of a mechanism.| The trigger pull is adjustable for distance as well as for pull weight and backlash.
		> 角度 |Degree of play between parts of a mechanism.| typical gearbox backlash in these systems is 2°
	- reel
		> 捲筒 |A cylinder on which film, wire, thread, or other flexible materials can be wound.|
		> 一捲 |A length of something wound on to a reel.| a reel of copper wire
		> 影片的一部份 |A part of a film.| in the final reel he is transformed from unhinged sociopath into local hero
		> 卷線器 |A device for winding and unwinding a line as required, in particular the line attached to a fishing rod.| 
		> 蘇格蘭民族舞蹈 |A lively Scottish or Irish folk dance.|
		> |Dance a reel.|
		> 捲/繞 |Wind something on to a reel by turning the reel.| sailplanes are often launched by means of a wire reeled in by a winch
		> 失去平衡/跌倒 |Lose one`s balance and stagger or lurch violently.| he punched Connolly in the ear, sending him reeling
		> 搖搖晃晃地走 |Walk in a staggering or lurching manner, especially while drunk.| the two reeled out of the bar arm in arm
		> 感到困惑/震驚 |Feel shocked, bewildered, or giddy.| the Prime Minister was reeling from a savaging inflicted in the Commons
	- feckless /ˈfɛkləs/  不負責任的 == Lacking initiative or strength of character; irresponsible.
	- land grab 土地掠奪，大規模土地徵用的一個有爭議的問題：國內和跨國公司，政府和個人購買或租賃大塊土地

So while hacked phone calls and emails and networks keep grabbing the headlines, the real operations are the ones that are influencing the decisions you make and the opinions you hold, all in the service of a nation-state's strategic interest. This is power in the information age. And this information is all that much more **seductive**, all that much easier to take at face value and pass on, when it's **authentic**. Who's not interested in the truth that's presented in phone calls and emails that were never intended for public consumption? But how meaningful is that truth if you don't know why it's being revealed to you? 
	? this information is all that much more **seductive**, all that much easier to take at face value and pass on, when it's **authentic** 而當它是隱秘信息時， 這個信息變得愈發吸引人， 傳播的速度更快。
	- seductive /sɪˈdʌktɪv/ 吸引人的 == Tempting and attractive; enticing.
	- take sth at face value 僅憑表像對…信以為真 == to accept something as it appears to be rather than studying it more closely
		> I took the offer at face value. I didn't think they might be trying to trick me.

We must recognize that this place where we're increasingly living, which we've **quaintly** termed "cyberspace," isn't defined by ones and zeroes, but by information and the people behind it. This is far more than a network of computers and devices. This is a network composed of minds interacting with computers and devices. 
	- quaintly 離奇有趣地/奇怪地 == In an attractively unusual or old-fashioned manner.

And for this network, there's no encryption, there's no firewall, no two-factor authentication, no password complex enough to protect you. What you have for defense is far stronger, it's more adaptable, it's always running the latest version. It's the ability to think critically: call out *falsehood*, press for the facts. And above all, you must have the courage to **unflinchingly** pursue the truth. 
	? It's the ability to think critically: call out *falsehood*, press for the facts. 它是批判性思維：指出錯誤的地方， 努力找到事實。
	- falsehood
		> 虛假 |The state of being untrue.| the truth or falsehood of the many legends which surround her
		> 謊言 |A lie.| a downright falsehood
		> 說謊 |Lying.| the right to sue for malicious falsehood
	- press for sth 努力獲得 == to work hard to win support for a plan so that it will succeed:
		> He will press for stricter pollution controls.
	- unflinching /ʌnˈflɪn(t)ʃɪŋ/ 不畏縮的 == Not showing fear or hesitation in the face of danger or difficulty. 