[How to fool a GPS](https://www.ted.com/talks/todd_humphreys_how_to_fool_a_gps/transcript?referrer=playlist-who_are_the_hackers&language=en)

Something happened in the early morning hours of May 2nd, 2000, that had a **profound** effect on the way our society **operates**. **Ironically**, hardly anyone noticed at the time. The change was silent, imperceptible, unless you knew exactly what to look for. On that morning, U.S. President Bill Clinton ordered that a special switch be **thrown** in the **orbiting** satellites of the *Global Positioning System*. Instantaneously, every civilian GPS receiver around the globe went from **errors** the size of a football field to errors the size of a small room. 
	- profound /prəˈfaʊnd/ 
	- ironically /ʌɪˈrɒnɪkli/ 
	? U.S. President Bill Clinton ordered that a special switch be thrown in the orbiting satellites of the Global Positioning System.  那天早上柯林頓總統下令將一特殊開關裝進全球定位系統的衛星
	- orbit /ˈɔːbɪt/
	- Global Positioning System 全球定位系統 == GPS
	- error /ˈɛrə/ 

It's hard to overstate the effect that this change in **accuracy** has had on us. Before this switch was thrown, we didn't have in-car navigation systems giving turn-by-turn directions, because back then, GPS couldn't tell you what block you **were on**, let alone what street. 

For geolocation, accuracy matters, and things have only improved over the last 10 years. With more base stations, more ground stations, better receivers and better algorithms, GPS can now not only tell you what street you are on, but what part of the street. 

This level of accuracy has **unleashed** a **firestorm** of innovation. In fact, many of you navigated here today with the help of your **TomTom** or your smartphone. Paper maps are becoming **obsolete**. 
	- unleash
		> 解開……的皮帶 |Release (a dog) from a leash.| they dig up badger setts and unleash terriers into them
		> 使被釋放 |Cause (a strong or violent force) to be released or become unrestrained.| the failure of the talks could unleash more fighting
	- firestorm 風暴性大火 == A very intense and destructive fire (typically one caused by bombing) in which strong currents of air are drawn into the blaze from the surrounding area making it burn more fiercely.
	- TomTom  是一家主營業務為地圖、導航和GPS設備的荷蘭公司，總部位於阿姆斯特丹
	- obsolete /ˈɒbsəliːt/ 

But we now stand on the verge of another revolution in geolocation accuracy. What if I told you that the two-meter positioning that our current cell phones and our TomToms give us is **pathetic** compared to what we could be getting? For some time now, it's been known that if you pay attention to the **carrier phase** of the GPS signal, and if you have an Internet connection, then you can go from meter level to centimeter level, even millimeter-level positioning. 
	- pathetic
		> 可憐的 |Arousing pity, especially through vulnerability or sadness.| she looked so pathetic that I bent down to comfort her
		> 可鄙的 |Miserably inadequate.| he's a pathetic excuse for a man
	- carrier phase 載波相位，利用衛星與接收器之間相對運動的關係，先取得衛星發射訊號時所產生的相位與接收器接收時所產生的參考相位，並求出兩者之間的相位差值，即為載波觀測量

So why don't we have this capability on our phones? Only, I believe, for a lack of imagination. Manufacturers haven't built this carrier phase technique into their cheap GPS chips because they're not sure what the general public would do with geolocation so accurate that you could pinpoint the **wrinkles** in the palm of your hand. But you and I and other innovators, we can see the potential in this next **leap** in accuracy. Imagine, for example, an augmented reality app that overlays a virtual world to millimeter-level precision on top of the physical world. I could build for you a structure up here in 3D, millimeter accurate, that only you could see, or my friends at home. 
	- wrinkle /ˈrɪŋk(ə)l/ 
		> 皺/皺紋 |A slight line or fold in something, especially fabric or the skin of the face.| she smoothed out the wrinkles from her skirt
		> 小困難 |A minor difficulty; a snag.| the organizers have the wrinkles pretty well ironed out
		> 妙計/好主意 |A clever innovation, or useful piece of information or advice.| learning the wrinkles from someone more experienced saves time
		> 起皺紋 |Make or cause lines or folds in (something, especially fabric or the skin)| his hands and face were wrinkled by age
		> 使起皺 |Grimace and cause wrinkles on (a part of the face)| he sniffed and wrinkled his nose
		> 皺起來 |Form or become marked with lines or folds.| her brow wrinkled

So this level of positioning, this is what we're looking for, and I believe that, within the next few years, I predict, that this kind of hyper-precise, carrier phase-based positioning will become cheap and **ubiquitous**, and the consequences will be fantastic. 
	- ubiquitous /juːˈbɪkwɪtəs/ 

**The Holy Grail**, of course, is the GPS dot. Do you remember the movie "The Da Vinci Code?" Here's Professor Langdon examining a GPS dot, which his **accomplice** tells him is a tracking device accurate within two feet anywhere on the globe, but we know that in the world of nonfiction, the GPS dot is impossible, right? For one thing, GPS doesn't work indoors, and for another, they don't make devices quite this small, especially when those devices have to **relay** their measurements back over a network. 
	- the holy grail /ˌhəʊ.li ˈɡreɪl/
		> 聖杯 |a cup believed to have been used by Jesus Christ at the meal before his death|
		> 極難找到或得到之物 |something that is extremely difficult to find or get| Sustained nuclear fusion is the holy grail of the power industry.
	- accomplice /əˈkʌmplɪs/
	+ relay
		> 一組 |A group of people or animals engaged in a task or activity for a period of time and then replaced by a similar group.| the wagons were pulled by relays of horses
		> 接力賽跑 |A race between teams of runners, each team member in turn covering part of the total distance.| a 550-metre relay race
		> 繼電器 |An electrical device, typically incorporating an electromagnet, which is activated by a current or signal in one circuit to open or close another circuit.|
		> 訊號轉送器 |A device to receive, reinforce, and retransmit a radio or television signal.| TV transmitters and relay stations
		> 轉播訊號 |A signal or broadcast transmitted by a relay.| a relay of a performance live from the concert hall
		> 轉達 |Receive and pass on (information or a message)| she intended to relay everything she had learned
		> 轉播 |Broadcast (something) by passing signals received from elsewhere through a transmitting station.| the speech was relayed live from the palace
		> 重新鋪設 |Lay again or differently.| they plan to relay about half a mile of the track

Well, these objections were perfectly reasonable a few years ago, but things have changed. There's been a strong trend toward **miniaturization**, better sensitivity, so much so that, a few years ago, a GPS tracking device looked like this **clunky** box to the left of the keys. Compare that with the device released just months ago that's now packaged into something the size of a key **fob**, and if you take a look at the state of the art for a complete GPS receiver, which is only a centimeter on a side and more sensitive than ever, you realize that the GPS dot will soon move from fiction to nonfiction. 
	- miniaturize --> miniaturization /mɪnɪtʃərʌɪˈzeɪʃ(ə)n/ 
	- clunky
		> 沉重的/笨重老式的 |Solid, heavy, and old-fashioned.| even last year's laptops look clunky
		> 鞋底厚重的 |(of shoes) clumpy.| clunky Dr Martens
		> |Making a clunking sound.| clunky conveyor belts
	- fob
		> 表鏈 |fob chain|
		> 表鏈上的裝飾物 |A small ornament attached to a watch chain.|
		> 表袋 |A small pocket for carrying a watch.| When worn by men, the watch was tucked into the fob pocket.
		> 鑰匙掛件 |A tab on a key ring.|
	- fob sb off (on sth) 搪塞/欺騙/騙..接受.. == Deceitfully attempt to satisfy someone by making excuses or giving them something inferior.
		> I was fobbed off with bland reassurances
	- key fob 鑰鍊/金鑰包

Imagine what we could do with a world full of GPS dots. It's not just that you'll never lose your wallet or your keys anymore, or your child when you're at Disneyland. You'll buy GPS dots in **bulk**, and you'll stick them on everything you own worth more than a few tens of dollars. 
	- bulk /bʌlk/ 
		> 大小/質量 |The mass or size of something large.| residents jump up and down on their rubbish to reduce its bulk
		> 巨大 |Large size or shape.| he moved quickly in spite of his bulk
		> 重 |A large mass or shape.|
		> 大量 |Large in quantity.| bulk orders of over 100 copies
		> 纖維性物質 |Roughage in food.| potatoes supply energy, essential protein, and bulk
		> 散裝貨物 |Cargo in an unpackaged mass such as grain or oil.| the port is specially designed for the largest dry bulk vessels
		> 紙張厚度 |The thickness of paper or a book.|
		> 大部分/大多數 |The greater part of something.| the bulk of the traffic had passed
		> 變得重要/顯得巨大 |Treat (a product) so that its quantity appears greater than it is.| traders were bulking up their flour with chalk
		> 組合(銷售) |Combine (shares or commodities for sale)| your shares will be bulked with others and sold at the best prices available
	- bulk up 增重/變壯實 == Build up flesh and muscle, typically in training for sporting events.
		> he took dietary supplements to bulk up as he lifted weights
	- in bulk 
		> 批發地 |(of goods) in large quantities and generally at a reduced price.| retail multiples buy in bulk
		> 散裝地 |(of a cargo or commodity) not packaged; loose.| sugar is imported in bulk and bagged on the island
	
I couldn't find my shoes one recent morning, and, as usual, had to ask my wife if she had seen them. But I shouldn't have to bother my wife with that kind of **triviality**. I should be able to ask my house where my shoes are.
	- triviality /ˌtrɪvɪˈalɪti/ 

Those of you who have made the switch to Gmail, remember how **refreshing** it was to go from organizing all of your email to simply searching it. The GPS dot will do the same for our possessions. 
	- refreshing
		> 提神的 |Serving to refresh or reinvigorate someone.| a refreshing drink
		> 使人耳目一新的 |Welcome or stimulating because new or different.|it makes a refreshing change to be able to write about something nice

Now, of course, there is a *flip side* to the GPS dot. I was in my office some months back and got a telephone call. The woman on the other end of the *line*, we'll call her Carol, was panicked. Apparently, an ex-boyfriend of Carol's from California had found her in Texas and was following her around. So you might ask at this point why she's calling you. Well, so did I. But it turned out there was a technical twist to Carol's case. Every time her ex-boyfriend would show up, at the most improbable times and the most improbable locations, he was carrying an open laptop, and over time Carol realized that he had planted a GPS tracking device on her car, so she was calling me for help to disable it. 
	- flip side 
		> 反面/負面/不受歡迎的一面 |the opposite, less good, or less popular side of something| We're now starting to see the flip side of the government's economic policy.
		> 唱片的背面 |the less popular side of a record|

"Well, you should go to a good **mechanic** and have him look at your car," I said. 

"I already have," she told me. "He didn't see anything obvious, and he said he'd have to take the car apart piece by piece." 

"Well then, you'd better go to the police," I said. 

"I already have," she replied. "They're not sure this rises to the level of harassment, and they're not set up technically to find the device." 

"Okay, what about the FBI?" 

"I've talked to them too, and same story." 

We then talked about her coming to my lab and us performing a *radio sweep* of her car, but I wasn't even sure that would work, given that some of these devices are configured to only transmit when they're inside safe zones or when the car is moving. 
	- We then talked about her coming to my lab and us performing a *radio sweep* of her car 我們最後決定請她來我的實驗室 用無線電掃描她的車

So, there we were. Carol isn't the first, and certainly won't be the last, to find herself in this kind of fearsome environment, worrisome situation caused by GPS tracking. 

In fact, as I looked into her case, I discovered to my surprise that it's not clearly illegal for you or me to put a tracking device on someone else's car. The Supreme Court ruled last month that a policeman has to get a **warrant** if he wants to do prolonged tracking, but the **law** isn't clear about civilians doing this to one another, so it's not just *Big Brother* we have to worry about, but Big Neighbor.
	- warrant /ˈwɒr(ə)nt/ <--> warn it
	- law /lɔː/ 
	- Big Brother 《老大哥》是一檔美國真人秀節目在本節目中，一群年齡、職業、家庭背景等不同的人會共同住在一間特殊設計的房子，他們沒有任何聯絡工具及方法，與外界完全隔離。這些房客將透過每週的比賽及淘汰來決定最終的贏家，獲勝者可以獲得五十萬美金。

There is one alternative that Carol could have taken, very effective. It's called the Wave Bubble. It's an open-source GPS jammer, developed by Limor Fried, a graduate student at MIT, and Limor calls it "a tool for reclaiming our personal space." With a flip of the switch you create a bubble around you within which GPS signals can't reside. They get *drowned out* by the bubble. And Limor designed this, in part, because, like Carol, she felt threatened by GPS tracking. Then she posted her design to the web, and if you don't have time to build your own, you can buy one. Chinese manufacturers now sell thousands of nearly identical devices on the Internet. 
	- drown out 聲音壓過 == (of a sound) to be loud enough to block the sound of something else
		> The sound of the telephone was drowned out by the vacuum cleaner.

So you might be thinking, the Wave Bubble sounds great. I should have one. Might come in handy if somebody ever puts a tracking device on my car. But you should be aware that its use is very much illegal in the United States. And why is that? Well, because it's not a bubble at all. Its jamming signals don't stop at the edge of your personal space or at the edge of your car. They go on to jam innocent GPS receivers for miles around you.

Now, if you're Carol or Limor, or someone who feels threatened by GPS tracking, it might not feel wrong to turn on a Wave Bubble, but in fact, the results can be disastrous. Imagine, for example, you're the captain of a cruise ship trying to make your way through a thick fog and some passenger in the back turns on a Wave Bubble. All of a sudden your GPS **readout** goes blank, and now it's just you and the fog and whatever you can pull off the radar system if you remember how to work it. They -- in fact, they don't update or **upkeep** lighthouses anymore, and **LORAN**, the only backup to GPS, was discontinued last year. 
	- readout
		> 讀數 |A visual record or display of the output from a computer or scientific instrument.| a digital readout of latitude and longitude
		> |An official statement summarizing the points discussed during a meeting or phone call between diplomats or political figures.| the White House readout of the call came after the prime minister postponed a key
	- upkeep
		> 保養 |The process of keeping something in good condition.| we will be responsible for the upkeep of the access road
		> 經濟或物資援助 |Financial or material support of a person or animal.| payments for the children's upkeep
	- LORAN 遠距離無線電導航系統 == Long Range Navigation

Our modern society has a special relationship with GPS. We're almost blindly reliant on it. It's built deeply into our systems and infrastructure. Some call it "the invisible utility." So, turning on a Wave Bubble might not just cause inconvenience. It might be deadly. 

But as it turns out, for purposes of protecting your privacy at the expense of general GPS reliability, there's something even more potent and more **subversive** than a Wave Bubble, and that is a GPS **spoofer**. 
	+ subversive
		> 起破壞作用的/有顛覆性的 |Seeking or intended to subvert an established system or institution.| subversive literature
		> 顛覆份子 |A subversive person.| the government claimed we were subversives or terrorists

The idea behind the GPS spoofer is simple. Instead of jamming the GPS signals, you fake them. You imitate them, and if you do it right, the device you're attacking doesn't even know it's being **spoofed**. 
	- spoof
		> 滑稽模仿的作品 |A humorous imitation of something, typically a film or a particular genre of film, in which its characteristic features are exaggerated for comic effect.| a Robin Hood spoof
		> 滑稽地模仿 |Imitate (something) while exaggerating its characteristic features for comic effect.| it is a movie that spoofs other movies
		> 愚弄 |A trick played on someone as a joke.| word got out that the whole thing had been a spoof
		> 欺騙/戲弄 |Hoax or trick (someone)| they proceeded to spoof Western intelligence with false information
		> 干擾(訊號) |Interfere with (radio or radar signals) so as to make them useless.| that meant that the Americans might not be able to jam or spoof his systems

So let me show you how this works. In any GPS receiver, there's a peak inside that corresponds to the **authentic** signals. These three red dots represent the tracking points that try to keep themselves centered on that peak. But if you send in a fake GPS signal, another peak pops up, and if you can get these two peaks perfectly **aligned**, the tracking points can't tell the difference, and they get hijacked by the stronger **counterfeit** signal, with the authentic peak getting *forced off*. At this point, the game is over. The fake signals now completely control this GPS receiver. 
	- aligned /əˈlʌɪn/ <--> a line
	? the tracking points can't tell the difference, and they get hijacked by the stronger **counterfeit** signal, with the authentic peak getting *forced off* 追蹤點便無從分辨兩者 轉而誤認訊號較強的假波峰為真 然後放棄追蹤真正的波峰
	- counterfeit /ˈkaʊntəfɪt/ 
	- force sb/sth off
		> 說服或要求..從..下來 |To persuade or pressure someone or an animal to get off of something.| Yeah, good luck forcing the dog off of your side of the bed.
		> 說服或要求..從..辭職或離去 |To persuade or pressure someone to resign from or leave a group.|  Now that we know Fred's involved in the scandal too, we need to force him off the board.

So is this really possible? Can someone really manipulate the timing and positioning of a GPS receiver just like that, with a spoofer? Well, the short answer is yes. The key is that civil GPS signals are completely open. They have no encryption. They have no authentication. They're wide open, vulnerable to a kind of spoofing attack. Even so, up until very recently, nobody worried about GPS spoofers. People figured that it would be too complex or too expensive for some hacker to build one. 

But I, and a friend of mine from graduate school, we didn't see it that way. We knew it wasn't going to be so hard, and we wanted to be the first to build one so we could *get out in front of the problem* and help protect against GPS spoofing. I remember **vividly** the week it all came together. We built it at my home, which means that I got a little extra help from my three-year-old son Ramon. Here's Ramon — (Laughter) — looking for a little attention from Dad that week. At first, the spoofer was just a *jumble* of cables and computers, though we eventually got it packaged into a small box. 
	- we wanted to be the first to build one so we could *get out in front of the problem* 我們想要當第一個製作出成品的人，以便面對、處理這個問題
	- jumble
		> 混雜 |An untidy collection or pile of things.| the books were in a chaotic jumble
		> 參雜 |Mix up in a confused or untidy way.| a drawer full of letters jumbled together

Now, the *Dr. Frankenstein moment*, when the spoofer finally came alive and I glimpsed its awful potential, came late one night when I tested the spoofer against my iPhone. Let me show you some actual footage from that very first experiment. I had come to completely trust this little blue dot and its reassuring blue **halo**. They seemed to speak to me. They'd say, "Here you are. Here you are." (Laughter) And "you can trust us." So something felt very wrong about the world. It was a sense, almost, of betrayal, when this little blue dot started at my house, and went running off toward the north leaving me behind. I wasn't moving. What I then saw in this little moving blue dot was the potential for chaos. I saw airplanes and ships **veering off course**, with the captain learning only too late that something was wrong. I saw the GPS-derived timing of the *New York Stock Exchange* being manipulated by hackers. You can scarcely imagine the kind of **havoc** you could cause if you knew what you were doing with a GPS spoofer. 
	- (Dr.) Frankenstein moment The moment when a piece of technology you've created functions properly for the first time and you cry out
	- Frankenstein 科學怪人
	- veer /vɪə/
		> 急轉向 |Change direction suddenly.| an oil tanker that had veered off course
		> |A sudden change of direction.|
		> 轉向/改變 |Suddenly change an opinion, subject, type of behaviour, etc.| the conversation eventually veered away from theatrical things
		> 使順風 |Slacken or let out (a rope or cable) in a controlled way.|
	- off course 偏離航線
	- havoc /ˈhavək/ 
		> 大破壞/浩劫 |Widespread destruction.| the hurricane ripped through Florida causing havoc
		> 大混亂/大雜亂 |Great confusion or disorder.| if they weren't at school they'd be wreaking havoc in the streets

There is, though, one **redeeming** feature of the GPS spoofer. It's the ultimate weapon against an invasion of GPS dots. Imagine, for example, you're being tracked. Well, you can play the tracker for a fool, pretending to be at work when you're really on vacation. Or, if you're Carol, you could lure your ex-boyfriend into some empty parking lot where the police are waiting for him. 
	- redeeming /rɪˈdiːmɪŋ/ 
		> 補償的 |Compensating for someone's or something's faults; compensatory.| tuneless dirges with few redeeming features
		> 救贖的 |Able to save people from sin, error, or evil.| the transforming power of God's redeeming grace

So I'm fascinated by this conflict, a **looming** conflict, between privacy on the one hand and the need for a clean radio spectrum on the other. We simply cannot tolerate GPS jammers and spoofers, and yet, given the lack of effective legal means for protecting our privacy from the GPS dot, can you really blame people for wanting to turn them on, for wanting to use them? 
	- loom /luːm/ <--> lumine
		> 織布機 |An apparatus for making fabric by weaving yarn or thread|
		> 隱約地出現 |Appear as a vague form, especially one that is large or threatening.| vehicles loomed out of the darkness
		> 隱約呈現的形象 |A vague and often exaggerated first appearance of an object seen in darkness or fog, especially at sea.|
		> 暗淡的反射光 |The dim reflection by cloud or haze of a light which is not directly visible, e.g. from a lighthouse over the horizon.|
		> 逼近/即將發生 |(of an event regarded as threatening) seem about to happen.| there is a crisis looming

I *hold out hope* that we'll be able to **reconcile** this conflict with some sort of, some yet uninvented technology. But meanwhile, grab some popcorn, because things are going to get interesting. 
	- hold out hope 保持希望 == To maintain hope that something will happen or be the case, especially when it does not seem likely. Often used in negative constructions and with modifiers.
		> We're still holding out hope that our missing son will be found.
		> I know that this legislation is right for the country, but I hold out little hope that it will make it through both houses of congress.
	- reconcile /ˈrɛk(ə)nsʌɪl/ 
		> 使和好 |Restore friendly relations between.| the king and the archbishop were publicly reconciled
		> 調停/調解 |Settle (a quarrel)| advice on how to reconcile the conflict
		> 調和/使一致 |Make or show to be compatible.| the agreement had to be reconciled with the city's new international relations policy
		> 使(帳目)一致 |Make (one account) consistent with another, especially by allowing for transactions begun but not yet completed.| it is not necessary to reconcile the cost accounts to the financial accounts

Within the next few years, many of you will be the proud owner of a GPS dot. Maybe you'll have a whole bag full of them. You'll never lose track of your things again. The GPS dot will fundamentally reorder your life. But will you be able to resist the temptation to track your fellow man? Or will you be able to resist the temptation to turn on a GPS spoofer or a Wave Bubble to protect your own privacy? 

So, as usual, what we see just beyond the horizon is full of promise and **peril**. It'll be fascinating to see how this all turns out. 
	- peril /ˈpɛrɪl/ 