## Topic

The following appeared in a health newsletter.

"A ten-year nationwide study of the effectiveness of wearing a helmet while bicycling indicates that ten years ago, approximately 35 percent of all bicyclists reported wearing helmets, whereas today that number is nearly 80 percent. Another study, however, suggests that during the same ten-year period, the number of accidents caused by bicycling has increased 200 percent. These results demonstrate that bicyclists feel safer because they are wearing helmets, and they take more risks as a result. Thus, there is clearly a call for the government to strive to reduce the number of serious injuries from bicycle accidents by launching an education program that concentrates on the factors other than helmet use that are necessary for bicycle safety."

Write a response in which you discuss what questions would need to be answered in order to decide whether the recommendation and the argument on which it is based are reasonable. Be sure to explain how the answers to these questions would help to evaluate the recommendation.

## 30min

Regarding the issue, the author of the argument concludes that wearing helmets cause bicyclists' gauard down since they feel secure after wearing helmet. To justify the conclusion, the author points out that a nationwide study denoted that the percentage of cyclists wearing helmet boosted, but, on the other hand, another study indicated that the number of accidents caused by bicycling also increased, which may seem plausible at first glance. Nevertheless, the argument fails to be compeletely compelling as it stands, for it contains a wide array of unwarranted assumptions by the virtue of the lack of imprengable evidences.

First of all, the authors assume that the increment in the ratio of people using helmets when riding the bike means that their security is more guaranteed than the ten years ago. This assertation is a stretch and not substantiated in any way, though it is not entirely preposterous. It is much likely that the number of helmets wear by bicyclists is not the only factor that could make the accidents fewer. There are numerous exmamples representing that other essentials about the helmet have some effect on traffic accidents. For instance, a manfacturer, for increasing the productivity of manfacturing helmets to supply the need for the bursting people who need to buy a helmet, utilize worse materials to create their helmet. And then, during the ride of people wearing the low-quality helmet, those helmets broke and lead to the accident caused by those riders. In order to reinforce the argument, the author should furnish more credible evidences and have to account for and rule out this and other possible explanations.

What is more, the author claims that there is a study showing that the number of accidents caused by bicycling hugely increase; thus, the author suggests that caused-by-bicyclists accidents must originate from the reckless attitude of wearing helmets. Specifically, this is again a very weak and misleading claims as the argument did not mention any detailed data about the study. In fact, the study could not even have the same scope as the ten-year nationwide study that shows the increment in the number of the people wearing helmets. In other words, a study may concluded its result by sampling the people in the United States and, on the other hand, the other study did by investigating in Asia. If the author provided evidence that clearly mentions the data sample of both studies, the argument could have been strengthend even further.

Finally, the author premises that the accidents was caused by bicyclists who feel safer because they are wearing helmets. This is true when it comes to the fact that the both study are based on the almost similar sample and those accidents was definitely occurred by the remiss bicyclists. However, the argument did not provide enough evidence to proof that.

In summary, the argument is flaws and therefore unconvincing. If the author clearly mentions all the relevant facts, the argument could been improved. In an attempt to assess the merits of a certain situations, is is essentials to provide more unbiased contributing data.

## Review

Regarding the issue, the author of the argument concludes that wearing helmets cause bicyclists' gauard down since they feel secure after wearing helmet **and thereby produced more accidents caused by bicycling**. To justify the conclusion, the author points out that a nationwide study denoted that the percentage of cyclists wearing helmet boosted, but, on the other hand, another study indicated that the number of accidents caused by bicycling also increased, which may seem plausible at first glance **considering the overdue safety theory**. Nevertheless, the argument fails to be *completely* compelling as it stands, for it contains a wide array of unwarranted assumptions by the virtue of the lack of *impregnable* evidences.

First of all, the authors *simply assumes* that the increment in the ratio of people using helmets when riding the bike means that their security is more guaranteed than the ten years ago. This *assertion* is a stretch and not substantiated in any way, though it is not entirely preposterous. It is much likely that the number of helmets *worn* by bicyclists is not the only factor that could make the accidents fewer. There are numerous *examples* representing that other essentials about the helmet have some effect on *the* traffic accidents. For instance, a *manufacturer*, for increasing the productivity of *manufacturing* helmets to supply the need for the bursting people who *will* buy a helmet, utilize worse materials to create their helmet. And then, during the ride of people wearing the low-quality helmet, those helmets broke and lead to the accident caused by those riders. In order to reinforce the argument, the author should furnish more credible evidences and have to account for and rule out this and other possible explanations.

What is more, the author claims that there is a study showing that the number of accidents caused by bicycling hugely increase; thus, the author suggests that caused-by-bicyclists accidents must originate from the reckless attitude *after* wearing helmets. Specifically, this is again a very weak and misleading claims as the argument did not mention any detailed data about the study. In fact, the study could not even have the same scope as the ten-year nationwide study that shows the increment in the number of the people wearing helmets. In other words, a study may concluded its result by sampling the people in the United States and, on the other hand, the other study did by investigating in Asia. If the author provided evidence that clearly mentions the data sample of both studies, the argument could have been *strengthened* even further.

Finally, the author premises that the accidents was caused by bicyclists who feel safer because they are wearing helmets. This is true when it comes to the fact that the both study are based on the almost similar sample and those accidents was definitely occurred by the remiss bicyclists **- different research may have dissimilar definition of caused-by-bicyclists accidents**. **In addition, an education about other factors causing the accident would be an correct resolution had the behavior wearing helmet been the only influence on the accident. However, the said argument does not constitute a sufficient support to proclaim that bicyclists wearing helmets bring about the accidents by their overflowing safety. Because the author does not present further information in the study, we do not also enough proofs to propose that the bicyclists take more risks since the time they were more willing to wear helmets.**

In summary, the argument is *flawed* and therefore unconvincing. It could be considerably improved if the author clearly mentions all the relevant facts. In an attempt to assess the merits of a certain *situation*, is is *essential* to *include* more unbiased contributing data.