## Topic

The following appeared in a letter to the editor of Parson City's local newspaper.

"In our region of Trillura, the majority of money spent on the schools that most students attend — the city-run public schools — comes from taxes that each city government collects. The region's cities differ, however, in the budgetary priority they give to public education. For example, both as a proportion of its overall tax revenues and in absolute terms, Parson City has recently spent almost twice as much per year as Blue City has for its public schools — even though both cities have about the same number of residents. Clearly, Parson City residents place a higher value on providing a good education in public schools than Blue City residents do."

Write a response in which you discuss what specific evidence is needed to evaluate the argument and explain how the evidence would weaken or strengthen the argument.

## 30 min

Regarding the issue, the author of the argument concludes that Parson City regards a good education more important than Blue City does. To justify the conclusion, the author points out that the schools' income mostly come from the taxes of its local government, and Parson City spent almost twice as much per year as Blue City even though they have same indentical number of residents. Nevertheless, the argument fails to be completely compelling as it stands for it contains a wide array of unwarranted assumptions, by virtue of the lack of impregnable evidences.

First of all, the author simply assumes that the schools in Parson City and Blue City obtain their funding from the taxes since Trillura, the author's region, does. The assertion is a stretch and not substantiated in any way, though it is not entirely preposterous. It is much likely that the income of the schools largely are procured from other sources. There are numerous examples that they could depend on other funding rather than part of taxes collected by the governments. For instance, schools in Parson City obtain their revenue by receiving higher tuition from their students , and, on the other hand, those in Blue City acquire their income by donation of the students' parents. In order to reinforce the argument, the author must furnish more credible evidences and have to account for and rule out this or other possible explanations.

What is more, the author claims that Parson City spent more tax revenues, in terms of percentage, than Blue City; thus, the author suggests that the education in Parson City is deemed more significant by its residents. Specifically, this is again a very weak and misleading claim as the argument did not provide any specific number of gain from the governments. In fact, even if Parson City spend eighty percent of its income at education, the actual expenditure could be less than ten percent of Blue City's tax income. Many situations could explain the difference. For example, Parson City have the more number of teachers whose wage cause the higher proporation spent in Blue City. If the author provided the evidences that the real number of funding giving to the education, the argument could have been strengthened even further.

Finally, the author premises that the two cities have close tax revenues since they have the same number of residents. Adimittedly, it is true especially when it comes to the facts that two cities have similar average salary. In addition, if the residents of the two cities did not privately donate their incomes or both of them provides close-enough donation to the schools. However, the argument does not constitute a sufficicent backing to proclaim that their tax revenues could be close enough. Because Blue City may have more-higher-salary residents than Parson City, which make residents in Blue City more willing to provide their income for improvement of the schools.

In summary, the argument is flawed and unconvincing. It could be considerably improved if the author clearly mentions all relevant facts. In order to assess the merits of a certain situation, it is essential to include more unbiased contributing factors.

## Review

Regarding the issue, the author of the argument concludes that Parson City regards a good education more important than Blue City does. To justify the conclusion, the author points out that the schools' income mostly come from the taxes of its local government, and Parson City spent almost twice of *proportion of tax revenues*  as much per year as Blue City even though they have same *identical* number of residents. Nevertheless, the argument fails to be completely compelling as it stands for it contains a wide array of unwarranted assumptions, by virtue of the lack of impregnable evidences.

First of all, the author simply assumes that the schools in Parson City and Blue City obtain their funding from the taxes since Trillura, the author's region, does. The assertion is a stretch and not substantiated in any way, though it is not entirely preposterous. It is much likely that the income of the schools are **largely** procured from other sources. There are numerous examples that they could depend on other funding rather than part of taxes collected by the governments. For instance, schools in Parson City obtain their revenue by receiving higher tuition from their students , and, on the other hand, those in Blue City acquire their income by donation of the students' parents. In order to reinforce the argument, the author must furnish more credible evidences and have to account for and rule out this or other possible explanations.

What is more, the author claims that Parson City spent more tax revenues, in terms of percentage, than Blue City; thus, the author suggests that the education in Parson City is deemed more significant by its residents. Specifically, this is again a very weak and misleading claim as the argument did not provide any specific *~~number of~~* gain from the governments. In fact, even if Parson City spend eighty percent of its income at education, the actual expenditure could be less than ten percent of Blue City's tax income. **Furthermore, the schools could have same level of educational resources, such as professors and buildings. Therefore, they just need the same amount of funding to sustain their schools.**  **~~Many situations could explain the difference. For example, Parson City have the more number of teachers whose wage cause the higher *proportion* spent than in Blue City.~~** If the author provided the evidences that the real number of funding *given* to the education, the argument could have been strengthened even further.

Finally, the author premises that the two cities have close tax revenues since they have the same number of residents. *Admittedly*, it is true especially when it comes to the facts that two cities have similar average salary. In addition, if the residents of the two cities did not privately donate their incomes or both of them provides **comparable** donation to the schools. However, the argument does not constitute a sufficient backing to proclaim that their tax revenues could be analogous. Because Blue City may have higher-than-average-salary residents whose number are more than Parson City's, which, thereby, make residents in Blue City more willing to provide their income for improvement of the schools.

In summary, the argument is flawed and unconvincing. It could be considerably improved if the author clearly mentions all relevant facts. In order to assess the merits of a certain situation, it is essential to include more unbiased contributing factors.