# Problems with Indefinite Pronouns 
* Anyone, anybody, anything, **each**, either, **everybody**, **everyone**, **everything**, neither, nobody, none, no one, one, somebody, something, and someone are all considered to be **singular**.
	* Everybody **is** seated, and each is waiting for the plane to take off. 
	* Each of the dogs **needs** its personalized collar before it can be enrolled in dog obedience school. 
* A common tendency in everyday speech is to use **they or their** in place of some singular pronouns. Besides, **they and their** are used to be a pronoun for *trans (whose gender is neither a male nor a female)* and prevent an overuse of *his or her or he or she*.
	* *Everybody* is seated, and **they are** waiting for the plane to take off. 
	* When I came downstairs, *everybody* in the family was already eating *their* breakfast, and *everyone was* engrossed in reading *their* different sections of the newspaper. Each of *them* seemed to be in *their* own little world. 
	* When I came downstairs, everybody in the family was already eating *his or her* breakfast, and everyone was engrossed in reading *his or her* different sections of the newspaper. Each of them seemed to be in *his or her* own little world. 
	* When I came downstairs, *all of my family* members were already eating *their* breakfast. *All of them were* engrossed in reading *their* own sections of the newspaper. *They* seemed to be in *their* own little world. 
* With five pronouns **(all, any, most, none, and some)**, the “disregard the prepositional phrase” rule doesn’t apply. **Look at the object of the preposition** to determine which verb to use. 
	* *All* of the **money** **is** missing from the safe. 
	* *All* of the **cookies** **are** missing from the jar. 

# Vague Pronoun References 
1. Billy Joe invited Darrell to the ranch because **he** enjoyed horseback riding. 
	* Whom does the word he in the second part of the sentence refer to — Billy Joe or Darrell? The antecedent of he isn’t clear. 
	* Rewrote:
		* Because **Darrell** enjoyed horseback riding, Billy Joe invited **him** to the ranch. 
		* **Billy Joe, who enjoyed horseback riding**, invited Darrell to the ranch. 
1. Karen was afraid **he** would not remember to pick up the refreshments for the party. 
	* Who is he? Unless the man has been identified in an earlier sentence, the reader is left out in the cold about his identity. 
1. The young recording star was elated, but he kept **it** hidden. 
	* What did the star keep hidden? Was it supposed to refer to the fact that he felt elated? 
	* If we replace it with the designed antecedent, the sentence will be "The young recording star was elated, but he *kept elated hidden*." However, the word *elated is not even a noun*
	* Rewrote: The young recording star was elated with his hit record, but he **kept his feelings hidden**. 
1. After a successful fishing trip with his brothers, Steve let **them** all go. 
	* In the original sentence, Steve let his brothers go.
	* If the writer want to express that Steve let all the fishes go, it should be rewritten to: "After a successful fishing trip with his brothers, Steve let **all of their catch** go."
1. The new tax forms arrived today. **They** want me to fill out every line on the last three pages. 
	* In the problematic sentence, they means "the new tax forms", so the latter sentence represent that the tax forms want you to do the filling out. 
	* Rewrote: The new tax forms arrived today. **Our accountant** wants me to fill out every line on the last three pages. 

# Choose the Right Person
* There are 3 types of particular persons in writing
	* First Person: expresses the personal point of view of the speaker or author.
	* Second Person: directly address the listener or reader.
	* Third Person: expresses from the point of view of a detached writer or other characters.
* Shifts in Person: is one of the most common problems in writing. If you begin in third person, stay in third person, vice versa.
	* For example:
		* Problem: Even in a casual atmosphere **I** can be embarrassed by someone else, and this causes *you* to become tense. For instance, somebody *you* know can embarrass *you* at a party or in a class. It’s so simple for a stranger to embarrass *you*. This can be upsetting, depending on the kind of person *you* are; it can be hurtful even if *you* are mentally strong. 
		* Corrected: Even in a casual atmosphere **I** can be embarrassed by someone else, and this causes **me** to become tense. For instance, somebody **I** know can embarrass **me** at a party or in a class. It’s so simple for a stranger to embarrass **me**. This can be upsetting because of the kind of person **I** am, and it can be hurtful even if **I** am mentally strong. 
* Using the Second Person: something written in second person will have a more **conversational** tone than in first and third person.
	* Second Person: **You’ll** need to watch the mixture carefully, and **you** may have to stir it quite often. When **you** get to the last step, make sure **you** add the final three ingredients slowly. If **you** add them too quickly, the combination will not blend and **you’ll** have a mess on **your** hands. 
	* Third Person: **The mixture must** be watched carefully, and **it may have to be** stirred quite often. At the last step, **it is important that** the final three ingredients be added slowly. If **they are added** too quickly, the combination will not blend and **a mess will be created**. 
	
# Pronoun Cases
* Subjective pronouns: I, you, he, she, it, we, and they. 
	* *I* am going to leave for my appointment. 
	* *She* is late already.
	* *They* will never make it on time. 
	* His brothers *and he* are going to the ball game
	* Margaret, Elizabeth, *and I* were at the mall for four hours yesterday.
	* I *and she* see eye-to-eye on lots of things. 
* Objective pronouns: me, you, him, her, it, us, and them.
	* Terry came to see her last night.
	* For the twins’ birthday, Mother gave them several new CDs. 
	* The argument arose last night between Carla and her ~~she~~.
	* Please buy a raffle ticket from Nonnie or me ~~U~~. 
* Possessive pronouns: my, your, his , her , its , our, and their. 

# Situations with Than and As 
* Some problems arise in the sentence with **words that are omitted following in than or as**.
* Examples
	1. Greg said to Grace, “I always thought Mother liked you more **than me**.” 
		* Greg said to Grace, “I always thought Mother liked you more than *(Mother like)* me.” 
	1. Greg said to Grace, “I always thought Mother liked you more **than I**.” 
		* Greg said to Grace, “I always thought Mother liked you more than I *(like you)*.” 
	1. My husband finds physics as interesting as me. 
		* This implies that, to the husband, the subject of physics and his wife are of equal interest. 
	1. My husband finds physics as interesting as I. 
		* My husband finds physics as interesting as I (do = find physics interesting). 

# Who and Whom: A Different Slant 
* Deciding whether to use **who or whom** may be the most difficult of all the problems with pronouns. 
* If you have trouble deciding which to use, try the following method. 
	1. Scramble the words of the clause that contain who or whom so that the words form a statement.
	1. Substitute either he or him for who or whom. Use the mnemonic he = who , him = whom.
	1. If you have a linking verb rather than an action verb, use he (who) instead of him (whom) . 
* Practices:
	1. (**Who** , Whom) telephoned so late last night? 
		1. No scramble is necessary.
		1. Substitute he and have a perfectly good sentence: He telephoned so late.
		1. Since you substituted with he, you know to use who.
	1. (Who , **Whom**) were you telephoning so late at night? 
		1. Scramble the words to make a statement: you were telephoning (who, whom) so late at night? 
		1. Then substitute he or him, and you have the statement “You were telephoning him so late at night.” 
		1. Since you used him in the new sentence, you know to use whom 
	1. Eugene worried about (who, **whom**) Eddie would be teamed with in the competition. 
		1. This sentence has two clauses, but you’re only concerned with the clause that contains the who/whom question. Take the words after about, scramble them to make a statement: Eddie would be teamed with (who, whom) in the competition.
		1. Substitute he or him, and you have “Eddie would be teamed with him in the competition.” 
		1. Since you used him, you would know that the original sentence would use whom.

# Summary
* Pronouns frequently pose some problems for both speakers and writers. However, using the proper pronoun is essential to avoid both confusion and miscommunication.
* The following are all pronouns in English:
	* **Personal pronouns**: I/me, you, he/him, she/her, it, we/us, they/them,
	* **Possessive pronouns**: mine, yours, hers, his, theirs, ours,
	* **Reflexive pronouns**: myself, yourself, himself, herself, itself, ourselves, yourselves, themselves
	* **Demonstrative pronouns**: this, that, these, those
	* **Relative pronouns**: who, whom, which, that, whose
	* **Interrogative pronouns**: what, who, whom, which, that, whose
	* **Indefinite pronouns**: all, another, any, anybody, anyone, anything, both, each, either, everybody, everyone, everything, little, few, many, most, much, neither, no one, nobody, none, nothing, one, other, others, several, some, somebody, someone, and something.
* All pronouns must agree in number with their **antecedents (the word they refer to)**. If a pronoun is plural, the word it refers to must be plural, vice versa.
* An antecedent **has to refer to a specific** person, place, or thing. 
* If you think that you may have an unclear pronoun reference, one way to test the sentence is to: check whether the sentence makes sense or not after replacing the pronoun with its contextual antecedent.
* It is more polite that put the other person in a sentence before I, e.g. She and I see eye-to-eye on lots of things. 
* By **mentally adding the missing verb in the sentence using than or as** in this way, you’ll be able to tell which pronoun to use. 