# Ending a Sentence
* There are 3 punctuations that signal the ending of a sentence: a period (.), a question mark (?), and an exclamation point (!).
* Periods
	* It is the most often used mark that signal **the end of a declarative sentence or an imperative sentence.**
		* The majority of the viewers stopped watching the program after the format was changed. 
		* Hand me the pen that rolled near you. 
	* It is also used in abbreviation: Dr., Mr., Ms., Rev. (對基督教教士的尊稱), i.e., etc., et al. (等人/以及其他人)
* Question Mark
	* It is most used **at the end of a direction question or a sentence that ends in questions**.
		* Will you go to anywhere on this Saturday?
	* It is also used to show that there is doubt or uncertainty about something written in the sentence.
		* The police are searching for a fugitive known only as Richard-O (?) in connection with the crime. 
		* Paul said he would donate five thousand (?) dollars to the charity. 
	* If you have a series of questions that are not complete sentences, a question mark should be included after each fragment
		* Can you believe that it’s ten below zero? or that it’s snowing? or that my electricity has gone off? or that the telephone has gone out? or that I’m completely out of snacks to get me through this weather? 
* Exclamation Points
	* It is used to express strong feelings.
		* Out of the blue, Marsha called Kyle last night! 
	* **In formal writing, don't use exclamation points** unless you are quoting a a source or citing a title.
		* I refuse to watch that new television program "I Can’t Believe It!" 
	* In informal writing, you might include exclamation points after information that you find to be remarkable or surprising.
		* Paul said that he would donate five thousand dollars (!) to the charity. 
		* Paul said that he would donate five thousand dollars to the charity! 

# Quotation Mark 
* Quotation marks (") are used to **show the reader the exact words that a person said.** This is called a direct quotation.
	* Direct quotation: The bank robber said, “Hand over the money.” 
	* Indirect quotation: The bank robber said to hand over the money. 
* Single quotation marks (') are only, in the United States, used for a quotation within a quotation.
	* “Mark said, ‘I’ll be fine,’ but then he collapsed,” cried Shameka.
	* “I’m reading the story ‘Plaid Blazers and Other Mysteries,’” said Laura. 
* Usage Guidelines:
	1. Every time you change speakers, indent and make a new paragraph.
		* Nick picked up the receiver and said, “Hello.” A voice asked, “Who is this?” “Nick.” “Nick who?” “Well, who is this?” “You know darned well who this is.” 
		* Nick picked up the receiver and said, “Hello.” <br>A voice asked, “Who is this?” <br>“Nick.” <br>“Nick who?” <br>“Well, who is this?” <br>“You know darned well who this is.” 
	1. If you’re quoting more than one sentence from the same source **put the closing quotation marks at the end of the speaker’s last sentence** of that paragraph only.
		* At the diner, Geoff said, “I’ll start with a cup of coffee and a large orange juice. Then I want scrambled eggs, bacon, and toast for breakfast. May I get home fries with that?” 
	1. If you’re quoting more than one paragraph from the same source, **put beginning quotation marks at the start of each paragraph** of your quote **and closing quotation marks at the end only**. 
		* **“We’ll** expect to receive the ransom money by this afternoon. You can get it from your Grandfather Perkins. We know he’s loaded. <br>**“Tell** him not to try any funny stuff. We want the money in unmarked bills, and we don’t want any police involved. We’ll be in touch in ten hours to tell you where to deliver the dough. Just get it and keep your mouth **shut.”** 
	1. Use quotation marks to enclose the titles of **short works** (short poems, short stories, titles of articles from magazines or newspapers, essays, chapters of books, songs, and episodes of television or radio programs)
		* Harry consulted a chapter called “The Art of Detection” from the book How Mysteries Are Written.
		* I particularly enjoy the song “Love Letters,” which is on the CD ABC and XYZ of Love . 
	1. If you’re using **slang, technical terms, or other expressions outside the normal usage**, enclose them in quotation marks
		* My grandmother didn’t know if it was a compliment or an insult when I described my best friend as being “phat.”
		* In computer discussion groups, what does “start a new thread” mean? 
	1. Remember that **periods (.) and commas (,) go inside** closing quotation marks; **colons (:) and semicolons (;) go outside** closing quotation marks. 
		* I was reading the short story “Scared Out of My **Wits,”** but I fell asleep in spite of myself.
		* I was reading the short story “Scared Out of My **Wits”;** I didn’t find it to be scary at all. 
	1. **The question mark (?) and the exclamation mark (!)** go **either inside or outside** the closing marks, depending on what’s being quoted. If both your sentence and the quotation form a question or an exclamation, put the mark inside the closing quotation mark.
		* Martha said, “**Did** you fall asleep reading the story?” 
		* **Did** Martha say, “You must have fallen asleep”? 
		* **Did** I hear Martha say, “**Who** called this afternoon?” 
		* Martha shouted, “I hope you know what you’re doing!” 
		* Martha actually said, “You must be right”! 

# Using Apostrophes 
* Contraction: An **apostrophe (')** often indicates that at least one letter has been omitted.
	* don’t = do not, I'll = I will, is not = isn’t, cannot = can’t, you have = you’ve
* Possession
	1. If a singular noun doesn’t end in –s, its possessive ends in –’s.
		* The car’s engine was still running. 
		* Shannon’s book 
		* the lion’s mane
	1. When you have plural nouns that end in –s, add ' after the final –s. If a plural noun doesn't end in -s (like children, oxen, men), its possessive ends in –’s.
		* The girls’ jackets were left in the coatroom. 
		* five musicians’ instruments 
		* twenty-four years’ worth 
		* the children’s coats
		* the men’s scores
		* the oxen’s yokes 
	1. If a singular noun ends in -s, its possessive ends either in -'s or in -s'. Remember keeping either of the rules in the whole writing.
		* Julie Jones’s help was invaluable in finding a new apartment. 
		* Julie Jones’ help was invaluable in finding a new apartment. 
	1. If more than two persons possess something together, the possessive is used **after the last person’s name only**.
		* Jim and Allison’s cars were stolen. 
	1. If every person possesses something individually, the possessive is used after all names. 
		* Jim’s and Allison’s cars were stolen. 
* Using an Apostrophe to Form a Plural
	1. When you’re writing abbreviations that have more than one period. 
		* M.D. = M.D.’s 
	1. If you have proverbial expressions that involve individual letters or combinations of letters
		* Dot your i’s and cross your t’s. 
	1. when your reader would be confused by reading an – s alone 
		* s = s’s 

# Commas
* When readers see a **comma (,)**, they know that there is a slight pause, and they can tell how particular words or phrases relate to other parts of the sentence. 
	* Will you call Mary Alice Lee and Jason or should I? 
	* Will you call Mary, Alice, Lee, and Jason, or should I?
	* Will you call Mary Alice, Lee, and Jason, or should I?
	* Will you call Mary, Alice Lee, and Jason, or should I? 
* Commas with a Series 
	* If you have a series of items, use a comma to separate the items. 
	* Use a comma between two or more **adjectives** that modify a noun
		* The man in the **torn, tattered** jacket moved quickly through the crowded, unlit street. 
	* If the *first adjective modifies the idea expressed by the combination* of subsequent adjectives and the noun, then you don’t need commas. 
		* Many countries do not have stable *central governments*.
	* If you’re using and, or, or nor to connect the items in the series, don’t use commas
		* The flag is red and white and blue.
		* The flag might be red or white or blue.
		* The flag is neither red nor white nor blue. 
* Commas with Compound Sentences 
	* If you have two independent clauses and they’re **joined by for, and, not, but, or, yet, or so (fanboys, Coordinating Conjunctions)**, join them with a comma
		* It was more than three hours past lunchtime, and everybody was grumbling about being hungry. 
	* You may **eliminate the comma if the two independent clauses are short** and if there would be no danger of confusion with the comma not in the sentence. 
		* We filled up with gas and we went on our way.
	* If you have a simple sentence with **compound verbs**, don’t put a comma between the verbs
		* I wanted to get some rest but needed to get more work done.
* Commas with Quoted Material 
	* If a quoted sentence is interrupted by words such as he said or she replied, use commas. Moreover, the first comma goes before the closing quotation mark and the second comma goes before the beginning quotation 
		* “For this contest,” he said, “you need three pencils and two pieces of paper.” 
	* If the words being quoted make up a question or an exclamation, don’t include a comma:
		* “Put that down right now!” Barry cried. 
* Commas with Clauses, Phrases, Appositives, and Introductory Words
	* Use commas to set apart clauses, participle phrases, and appositives that **aren’t necessary to the meaning of the sentence**. 
		* The handsome man over there, **the only one who works in the deli department of the local supermarket**, has black hair and brown eyes. 
	* Remember: If you need the extra words for the meaning, you don’t need the commas. 
		* The only man **who works in the deli department of the local supermarket** was arrested for stealing four grapes and five apples. 
	* Commas are also used after introductory words that aren’t necessary for the meaning of a sentence. The same rule applies when they appear at the end of a sentence.
		* Why, don’t you look nice tonight!
		* Kayla, please help your brother find his tricycle.
		* If you must know, I have been dyeing my hair for the past ten years. 
		* Don’t you think that new CD really rocks, Jean-Marie?
		* You’ll be coming with us to the company picnic on Sunday, I hope.
	* Use commas around words that interrupt a sentence which are called **parenthetical expressions (插入語)**. 
		* The answer to the next question, Paula, can be found on page thirty-six.
		* This textbook, unlike the one I had before, is written in a style I can understand. 
	* Use a comma after an introductory verbal or **verbal phrase**: 
		* Weeping at the sight of the destruction, the news reporter broke down on camera.
		* To try to regain his composure, he took several deep breaths. 
	* Use a **comma after an introductory adverb clause**. However, *it is optional that use a comma before the clause*.
		* Because I didn’t stop at the red light, I got a ticket.
		* We did it because we felt it our duty.
		* If Glenn comes in town tonight, the whole family is going to get together for a picnic. 
		* He will come if you invite him
		* The passenger apparently arrived late, if the witness’s statement is true.
* Commas in Addresses 
	* Put a comma between the person’s last name and the start of the street address, then after the street address, then between the city and the state. 
		* Please remit the payment to Abby Householder, 4238 Old Highway 41 North, Hebbardsville, KY 42309. 
	* If you’re putting address information on separate lines, use a comma only between the city and state
		* Abby Householder <br>4238 Old Highway 41 North <br>Hebbardsville, KY 42309 
	* If you mention a city and state in text, or a city and country, put commas **around** the state or country: 
		* I have to visit Clinton, Iowa, on my next sales trip.
		* She is going to school in Grenoble, France, next spring. 
* Other Uses for Commas
	* Put a comma after the day of the week, the day of the month, and the year. If you’re writing only the day and month or the month and year, no comma is necessary.
		* I’ll be seeing you on Friday, February 23, 2001, at half past seven.
		* I’ll see you on February 23.
		* I’ll see you in February 2002.
	* Put a comma after the greeting (salutation) of all friendly letters and the closing of all letters
		* Dear Aunt Aggie,
		* Sincerely, 
	* If a person’s title or degree follows his or her name, put commas around it: 
		* Please call Robert Householder, Ph.D., at your convenience.
		* The deposition was given by Edward Butterworth, M.D. 
	* Using commas to divide numbers of 1,000:
		*  Is it my imagination, or are there 1,376,993 rules for commas? 

# Colons 
* The most common uses of a **colon (:)** is to signal to the reader that a list will follow
	* On the camping trip, please bring the following items: a flashlight, a sleeping bag, two boxes of matches, three changes of clothing, and food for six meals. 
	* There are a number of complaints that I have against the tenant: she tore the plaster in the living room, her dog stained the carpet in every room, and she has not paid her rent in three months. 
* In formal papers, a colon usually precedes a lengthy quotation: 
	* In his Gettysburg Address, Abraham Lincoln stated: <br>*Four score and seven years ago, our forefathers brought forth upon th is continent a new nation, conceived in liberty, and dedicated to the proposit on that all men are created equal.*
* Other Uses
	* In the greeting of a business letter 
		* To Whom It May Concern: 
	* Between the hour and minutes in time 
		* a meeting at 4:15 P.M. 
	* In dividing a title from its subtitle
		* My Favorite Punctuation Marks: Why I Love Colons
	* In naming a chapter and verse of the Bible
		* Genesis 2:10
	* In naming the volume and number of a magazine
		* Time 41: 14
	* In naming the volume and page number of a magazine
		* U.S. News and World Report 166: 31
	* Between the city and the publisher in a bibliographical entry
		* London: Covent Garden Press 

# Semicolons 
* A **semicolon (;) signals a pause greater than one indicated by a comma** but less than one indicated by a period. 
* The most common use for a semicolon is **joining two complete thoughts** (independent clauses) into one sentence. Often semicolons are used **with conjunctive adverbs and other transitional words or phrases**.
	* The bank teller determined the bill was counterfeit; there was no serial number on it. 
	* Traffic is worse than we expected; therefore, we won’t be home before midnight. 
* There are times when a semicolon is used when a comma would seem to be the correct punctuation mark. 
	* The manhunt took place in Los Angeles; Nashville, Indiana; Stratford, Connecticut; Winnenan, Oklahoma; Dallas; and Olympia. 

# Hyphens
* A **hyphen (-)** is a short horizontal line; a dash (—) is longer. 
* Divide words between syllables
	* One-syllable words should not be divided. 
	* Keep in mind that some style guides may say that proper nouns (those that are capitalized) should not be hyphenated. 
* Hyphens with Numbers 
	* Use a hyphen (not a dash) between two dates and between page numbers
		* Prohibition (1919–1933) came about as a result of the Eighteenth Amendment.
	* Twenty-one to ninety-nine
* Hyphens with Compound Adjectives 
	* When a compound adjective precedes the noun it modifies, it should be hyphenated if together **they form the same image**. 
		* Charles Dickens was a nineteenth-century writer. = Charles Dickens was a writer who lived in the nineteenth century. 
		* Some well-known scientists are studying the effects of global warming. = Some scientists studying the effects of global warming are well known. 
		* The candidate succeeded because of his many influential, fat-cat supporters. 
	* If the first modifier is the word **very** or an **adverb that ends in –ly**, you don’t hyphenate a compound modifier.
		* a very condescending attitude
		* a strictly guarded secret
		* a very little amount of money
		* the highly publicized meeting 
* Hyphens for Clarification (See Ch1. Prefixes)
	1. [Pronunciation] The last letter of the prefix and the first letter of the root word is the **same vowel**: anti-institutional
	1. [Custom] Some prefix is being added to a proper noun: mid-March
	1. [Conflict] New combined word must be distinguished from another word: re-creation (versus recreation) 

# Dashes 
* A **dash (—)** provides a window for some informality in writing, allowing the writer to **introduce a sudden change in thought or tone**. 
	* The odometer has just reached thirty thousand miles, and I suppose it’s time to call the garage to schedule a—oops! I just passed the street where we were supposed to turn. 
* It may also be used to give emphasis to something that’s come before: 
	* Elizabeth spent many hours carefully planning what she would pack in the van—the van that would be her home for the next three months. 
* It may be used is in **defining or giving more information** about something in the sentence. Using **parentheses (()) or a colon (:)** in place of the dash has the same effect as a dash but more formal.
	* Margaret knew that when she finally arrived at her sorority house, she would be warmly greeted by her sisters—Lillian, Bea, Kwila, and Arlene. 
	* Margaret knew that when she finally arrived at her sorority house, she would be warmly greeted by her sisters (Lillian, Bea, Kwila, and Arlene).
	* Margaret knew that when she finally arrived at her sorority house, she would be warmly greeted by her sisters: Lillian, Bea, Kwila, and Arlene. 

# Parentheses
* **Parentheses (())** tells the reader that you’re **giving some extra information**, something that isn’t necessary to the meaning of the sentence but is helpful in understanding. If the information is necessary for the sentence to be read correctly, you shouldn’t use parentheses. 
	* For a complete study of Hitchcock’s movies, consult Chapter 8 (pages 85–96). 
	* My latest (and, I hope, my last) adventure with blind dates was a month ago; I haven’t recovered yet. 
* They are commonly used is in giving dates, especially birth and death dates. 
	* Dame Agatha Christie (1890–1976) wrote twelve novels that featured Miss Marple. 
* They are used to enclose numbers or letters that name items in a series. Sometimes both the parentheses marks are used, and sometimes just the mark on the right-hand side is used. Whether you use both parentheses or just one, be consistent when you’re naming items in a series. 
	* Before checking the patient, you should (a) wash your hands; (b) make sure the patient’s chart is nearby; (c) call for the attending nurse to supervise.
	* Before checking the patient, you should a) wash your hands; b) make sure the patient’s chart is nearby; c) call for the attending nurse to supervise.
* They are used to give a legislator’s party affiliation and home state or city or county.
	* Senator Abby Brackman (D-R.I.) met in her Washington office with a number of constituents, including Representative Mark Digery (R-Providence). 
* The less common use is to show the reader that an alternate ending for a word. Keep in mind that parentheses would not be used this way in more formal writing.
	* Please bring your child(ren) to the company picnic. 
	* Please bring your child or children to the company picnic.

# Square Brackets 
* One place where you’ll see square brackets is in dictionaries, where they are used to show the history of the word being defined. 
* Another use is in making certain that quoted material is clear or understandable for the reader. 
	* “He [Justin Lake] burst onto the scene and began to take society by storm.” 
* Use brackets to **alter** the capitalization of something you’re quoting so that it fits in your sentence or paragraph. Use brackets for quoted material only if their use doesn’t change the meaning of what’s being quoted. 
	* “[T]he river’s bank has eroded sufficiently to warrant major repair.” 
* If you need to give information that is already in parentheses, use brackets instead. 
	* The man who was responsible for the arrest (James Bradson [1885–1940]) was never given credit. 
* With the Latin word sic, it is used to show that what you’re **quoting has a mistake** that you are copying. 
	* “This painting was donated to the museum on September 31 [sic].” 
* Most style guides allow you to use either brackets or parentheses to **let the reader know that you’ve added italics** to quoted material. 
	* The time of the accident is as _equally important_ as is the date [italics added].
	* The time of the accident is as _equally important_ as is the date (italics added). 

# Angle Brackets
* **Angle brackets (<>)** are often used before and after URLs
	* Be sure to check out the information about this book and lots of our other fine publications at <www.-i-love-angle-brackets.net/~angle.brackets>. 
* If they are not used, extend the address to the second line without any extra punctuation 
	* When I tried to order, I was directed to this site: <br>www.anglosaxon.com/rebates/year/1066/. 

# Italics and Underlining 
* There is no difference in meaning between __underlining__ and _italics_. Just remember to use either underlining or italicizing consistently throughout your document. 
* Titles
	* Use of italicizing or underlining is in titles, but only **titles of long works**, such as books. 
		* _The Complete Sherlock Holmes_ or __The Complete Sherlock Holmes__
		* “The Adventure of the Speckled Band” (title of a short story)
	* Note that the titles of **sacred books** don’t require any punctuation nor do books of the Bible. 
		* I read the Bible for a half an hour today.
		* A copy of the Koran was on his bedside table. 
	* The following is a more complete list of works that should be italicized (underlined): Book-length poems (_Leaves of Grass_), Plays (_A Raisinin the Sun_), Operas: (_Carmen_), Movies (_Casablanca_), Pamphlets (_What You Should Do Before You See the Doctor_), Television programs (_The X-Files_), Works of art (_Mona Lisa_), Long musical works (_Greatest Love Songs of the Nineties_), Magazines and newspapers (_Time_), and Ships/aircraft/spacecraft/trains (_Endeavor_)
	* Articles (a, an, and the) and punctuations are italicized (underlined) only when they’re part of the actual title.
		* I read Sharyn McCrumb’s book _The Rosewood Casket_. 
		* I spent time aboard the _Mir_ spacecraft. 
		* May screamed, “There’s never been a better mystery than _The Murder of Roger Ackroyd_!” 
* Adding Emphasis
	* Look at the following sentences and see if you can tell the difference:
		* “I’m _certain_ I’m going to have to arrest you,” he said slyly.
		* “I’m certain _I’m_ going to have to arrest you,” he said slyly.
		* “I’m certain I’m going to _have_ to arrest you,” he said slyly.
		* “I’m certain I’m going to have to arrest you,” he said slyly.
		* “I’m certain I’m going to have to arrest you,” he said _slyly_.
	* The use of italics tells the reader where emphasis should be placed. This helps the writer let the reader know the speech patterns being used.
	* Be careful not to overuse italics (underlining) for emphasis, or you’ll lose the emphasis you want to communicate. 
* Indicating a Different Context 
	* The rule is that when words, numbers, or letters are used outside of their normal context, they should be italicized (underlined). 
		* The angry newspaper editor said to the reporter, “You imbecile! You used _robbery_ when you should have used _burglary_.” 
	* You’ll also apply this rule if you’re reproducing a sound through a word.
		* _Brrr!_ I didn’t know it was this cold outside. 
		* When Jerri dropped her new calculator on the floor, she cringed as it went _kerplunk_ when it landed. 
* Foreign Terms 
	* You should italicize (or underline) a foreign word or phrase. 
		* I was wavering about whether to go to the festival with my friends, but I decided *carpe diem*. 
	* If a foreign word or phrase has become so widely used in English, there’s no need to italicize it. 

# Ellipsis Points 
* When **ellipsis points or marks (...)** are used, the reader knows that some material from a quotation has been omitted. Note that you should use ellipsis points only if the meaning of the sentence isn’t changed by what you omit. 
	* “Mary Jean left the game early because ... she had a terrible headache,” said Kathy Ann. 
* If the material you are **omitting occurs at the end of a sentence**, or if you **omit the last part of a quoted sentence but what is left remains grammatically complete**, you would **use four ellipsis points**, with the first one functioning as a period. 
	* “A number of new people have joined the secret club.... Because the club is devoted to reading classical literature, however, its secret enrollment numbers have not been questioned by the public at large.” 
	* “A number of new people have joined.... [M]embership has never been higher. Because the club is devoted to 
* Another use for ellipsis marks is in quoting someone and trying to show that there’s a **deliberate pause** in what the person said.
	* Jimmy thought to himself, “If I can just hold on to the ball long enough to get it over to Mike, I know he can get the shot off. . . . I have to pace myself and keep watching the clock. . . . Twenty-five seconds . . . Fifteen seconds . . . Eight seconds . . . Time for a pass.” 

# The Slash/Virgule/Solidus 
* A slash (also called a virgule or a solidus) is commonly used to mean **or**.
	* a slash/virgule/solidus = a slash or virgule or solidus 
	* You may bring your spouse/significant other to the picnic. = You may bring your spouse or significant other to the picnic. 
* Other uses
	1. In mathematics, the slash is used to mean per 
		* There are 5,280 feet/mile. 
	1. A slash is used to form fractions
		* 9/16 = nine-sixteenths = nine divided by sixteen
	1. In literature, the slash separates lines of poetry that are written in a block style
		* Once upon a midnight dreary, while I pondered, weak and weary, / Over many a quaint and curious volume of forgotten lore—/ While I nodded, nearly napping, suddenly there came a tapping, / As of some one gently rapping, rapping at my chamber door—/ “’Tis some visitor,” I muttered, “tapping at my chamber door—/ Only this and nothing more. . . .” 
	1. With the popularity of the Internet, a common use of a slash is in URLs. 
		* His home page is at < www.myownwebsite.com/MarkPhillips/home >. 
