[The surprisingly charming science of your gut](https://www.ted.com/talks/giulia_enders_the_surprisingly_charming_science_of_our_gut/transcript?referrer=playlist-surprisingly_fun_ted_talks&language=en)

A few years ago, I always had this thing happening to me, especially at family **gatherings** like teas with aunts and uncles or something like this. When people come up to you, and they ask you, "So, what are you doing?" And I would have this magical one-word reply, which would make everybody happy: "Medicine. I'm going to be a doctor." Very easy, that's it, everybody's happy and pleased. And it could be so easy, but this effect really only lasts for 30 seconds with me, because that's then the time when one of them would ask, "So, in what area of medicine? What specialty do you want to go into?" And then I would have to **strip down** in all honesty and just say, "OK, so I'm fascinated with the **colon**. It all started with the **anus**, and now it's basically the whole **intestinal tract**." 
	- gathering /ˈɡað(ə)rɪŋ/ 
		> 集會/聚集 |An assembly or meeting, especially one held for a specific purpose.| a family gathering
		> |A group of leaves taken together, one inside another, in binding a book.| Of course, it is not possible to have eleven leaves in one gathering of a quarto book.
	- strip down 脫得只剩下…/把衣服脫到 == to remove everything except for a particular piece of clothing or above a particular part of the body
		> I had to strip down to my underwear for my medical examination.
		> He was stripped to the waist.
	- colon /ˈkəʊlən/
		> 冒號 |A punctuation mark (:) used to precede a list of items, a quotation, or an expansion or explanation.|
		> 結腸 |The main part of the large intestine, which passes from the caecum to the rectum and absorbs water and electrolytes from food which has remained undigested.|
	- anus 肛門 == The opening at the end of the alimentary canal through which solid waste matter leaves the body.
	- intestinal tract 腸道
	- intestinal /ɪntɛˈstʌɪn(ə)l/, /ɪnˈtɛstɪn(ə)l/ 腸的 == Relating to or affecting the intestine.
	* tract
		> 大片土地 |An area of land, typically a large one.| large tracts of natural forest
		> 道 |A major passage in the body, large bundle of nerve fibres, or other continuous elongated anatomical structure or region.| the digestive tract
		> 短文/小冊子 |A short treatise in pamphlet form, typically on a religious subject.| 
		> |(in the Roman Catholic Church) an anthem of Scriptural verses formerly replacing the alleluia in certain penitential and requiem Masses.|

And this would be the moment when the enthusiasm **trickled**, and it would maybe also get, like, **awkwardly** silent in the room, and I would think this was terribly sad, because I do believe our **bowels** are quite charming. 
	- trickle /ˈtrɪk(ə)l/ 
		> 滴/淌 |(of a liquid) flow in a small stream.| a solitary tear trickled down her cheek
		> 使細細地流 |Cause (a liquid) to flow in a small stream.| Philip trickled a line of sauce on his fish fingers
		> 慢慢地來到或離開 |Come or go slowly or gradually.| the first members of the congregation began to trickle in
		> 細流/涓流 |A small flow of liquid.| a trickle of blood
		> 一小群緩慢移動的人或物 |A small group or number of people or things moving slowly.| the traffic had dwindled to a trickle
	- awkwardly /ˈɔːkwədli/ 
	- bowel /ˈbaʊəl/  腸 == intestine == The part of the alimentary canal below the stomach; the intestine.
	- the bowels of ..的最深處 == The deepest inner parts or areas of (something)
		> |‘the mineshaft descended deep into the bowels of the earth|

And while we're in a time where many people are thinking about what new **superfood** **smoothie** to make or if **gluten** is maybe bad for them, actually, hardly anyone seems to care about the organ where this happens, the concrete **anatomy** and the mechanisms behind it. And sometimes it seems to me like we're all trying to figure out this magic trick, but nobody's checking out the magician, just because he has, like, an embarrassing hairstyle or something. And actually, there are reasons science disliked the *gut* for a long time; I have to say this. 
	- superfood 超級食物，是一個行銷詞彙，意指各種宣稱有益健康的食物
	- smoothie /ˈsmuːði/ 
		> 圓滑討好的男人 |A man with a smooth, suave manner.| I love to see him gliding his way round a dance floor, he is such a smoothie!
		> 冰沙 |A thick, smooth drink of fresh fruit pureed with milk, yogurt, or ice cream.|
	- gluten /ˈɡluːt(ə)n/ 麩質 == A mixture of two proteins present in cereal grains, especially wheat, which is responsible for the elastic texture of dough.
	- anatomy /əˈnatəmi/ 
	+ gut 

So, it's complex. There's a lot of surface area -- about 40 times the area of our skin. Then, in such a tight pipe, there are so many immune **cells** that are being trained there. We have 100 trillion bacteria doing all sorts of things -- producing little **molecules**. Then there's about 20 different hormones, so we are on a very different level than our **genitals**, for example. And the nervous system of our gut is so complex that when we cut out a piece, it's independent enough that when we poke it, it **mumbles** back at us, friendly. 
	- molecule /ˈmɒlɪkjuːl/ <--> /məˈlɛkjʊlə/ /məˈlɛkjʊlə/ 
	- genitals /ˈdʒɛnɪt(ə)l/ 生殖器官 == A person's or animal's external organs of reproduction.
	- mumble /ˈmʌmb(ə)l/ 
		> 含糊地說/咕噥 |Say something indistinctly and quietly, making it difficult for others to hear.| he mumbled something she didn't catch
		> 抿著嘴嚼 |Bite or chew (something) with toothless gums or without making much use of the teeth.| she mumbled a piece of black bread
		> 含糊的話/咕噥 |A quiet and indistinct utterance.| Rosie had replied in a mumble

But at least those reasons are also the reasons why it's so fascinating and important. 

It took me three steps to love the gut. So today, I invite you to follow me on those three steps. The very first was just looking at it and asking questions like, "How does it work?" and "Why does it have to look so weird for that sometimes?" And it actually wasn't me asking the first kind of these questions, but my roommate. After one heavy night of partying, he came into our shared-room kitchen, and he said, "Giulia, you study medicine. How does **pooping** work?" 
	- poop /puːp/ 
		> 艉/船尾 |The aftermost and highest deck of a ship, especially in a sailing ship where it typically forms the roof of a cabin in the stern.| there on the poop stood Captain Meech
		> 沖擊船尾 |(of a wave) break over the stern of (a ship), sometimes causing it to capsize.| off Rame Head we were badly pooped
		> 使筋疲力盡 |Exhaust (someone)| I was pooped and just flopped into bed
		> 排泄物/糞便 |Excrement.| dog poop is a major source of water pollution on Cape Cod
		> 排泄 |Defecate.|
		> 最新或內幕情報 |Up-to-date or inside information.| here's the latest poop from Hollywood
		> 傻瓜 |A stupid or ineffectual person.| he was making fun of an old poop

And I did study medicine but I had no idea, so I had to go up to my room and look it up in different books. And I found something interesting, I thought, at that time. So it turns out, we don't only have this outer **sphincter**, we also have an inner sphincter muscle. The outer sphincter we all know, we can control it, we know what's going on there; the inner one, we really don't. So what happens is, when there are **leftovers** from digestion, they're being delivered to the inner one first. This inner one will open in a reflex and let through a little bit for **testing**.
	- sphincter /ˈsfɪŋktə/ 括約肌 == A ring of muscle surrounding and serving to guard or close an opening or tube, such as the anus or the openings of the stomach.
	- test /tɛst/  <--> taste /teɪst/ 
	+ leftover
	
So, there are sensory cells that will analyze what has been delivered: Is it **gaseous** or is it solid? And they will then send this information up to our brain, and this is the moment when our brain knows, "Oh, I have to go to the toilet." 
	- gaseous /ˈɡasɪəs/, /ˈɡeɪsɪəs/ 氣體的/氣態的  == Relating to or having the characteristics of a gas.

The brain will then do what it's designed to do with its amazing consciousness. It will **mediate** with our surroundings, and it will say something like, "So, I checked. We are at this TEDx conference -- " 
	- mediate <--> immediate

Gaseous? Maybe, if you're sitting on the sides, and you know you can pull it off silently. 
	? if you're sitting on the sides, and you know you can pull it off silently. 如果你的座位是在邊沿， 且你知道你可以安靜地釋放的話。 
	- pull sth off 成功辦到 == to succeed in doing something difficult or unexpected
		> The central bank has pulled off one of the biggest financial rescues of recent years.
		> It's an ambitious plan, so let's see if we can really pull it off.

But solid -- maybe later. 

(Laughter) Since our outer sphincter and the brain is connected with nervous cells, they coordinate, cooperate, and they put it back in a waiting line --  for other times, like, for example, when we're at home sitting on the **couch**, we have nothing better to do, we are free to go. 
	- couch /kaʊtʃ/ <--> coach /kəʊtʃ/ 
		> 長沙發 |A long upholstered piece of furniture for several people to sit on.| I sat in an armchair and they sat on the couch
		> 心理病人接受治療時躺的沙發 |A reclining seat with a headrest at one end on which a psychoanalyst's subject or doctor's patient lies while undergoing treatment.
		> 表達 |Express (something) in language of a specified style.| the assurances were couched in general terms
		> 使躺下 |Lay down.| two fair creatures, couched side by side in deepest grass
		> |Treat (a cataract) by pushing the lens of the eye downwards and backwards, out of line with the pupil.|
		> 鵝觀草 |A coarse grass with long creeping roots, which can be a serious weed in gardens.|

Us humans are actually one of the very few animals that do this in such an advanced and clean way. To be honest, I had some *newfound* respect for that nice, inner sphincter **dude** -- not connected to nerves that care too much about the outer world or the time -- just caring about me for once. I thought that was nice. And I used to not be a great fan of public **restrooms**, but now I can go anywhere, because I consider it more when that inner muscle puts a suggestion on my daily agenda. 
	- newfound == newly found 新發現的
	- dude
		> 男人/傢伙 |A man; a guy (often as a form of address)| hey dude, what's up?
		> 花花公子 |A stylish and confident person.| cool dudes
		> 城裡人 |A city-dweller, especially one holidaying on a ranch in the western US.|
	- dude up 盛裝打扮 == Dress up elaborately.
		> my brother was all duded up in silver and burgundy
	- restroom 公廁 == A toilet in a public building.

And also I learned something else, which was: looking closely at something I might have shied away from -- maybe the weirdest part of myself -- left me feeling more fearless, and also appreciating myself more. And I think this happens a lot of times when you look at the gut, actually. Like those funny *rumbling* noises that happen when you're in a group of friends or at the office conference table, going, like, "Merrr, merrr..." This is not because we're hungry. This is because our small intestine is actually a huge **neat** **freak**, and it takes the time in between digestion to *clean everything up*, resulting in those eight **meters** of gut -- really, seven of them -- being very clean and hardly smelling like anything. It will, to achieve this, create a strong **muscular** wave that moves everything forward that's been leftover after digestion. This can sometimes create a sound, but doesn't necessarily have to always. So what we're embarrassed of is really a sign of something keeping our insides fine and tidy. 
	- rumbling 
		> 隆隆聲 |A continuous deep, resonant sound.| the rumbling of wheels in the distance
		> 徵兆 |An early indication or rumour of dissatisfaction or incipient change.| there are growing rumblings of discontent
		> 發出隆隆聲的 |Making or constituting a deep resonant sound.| rumbling trams
		> 持續的(不滿或爭論) |(of dissatisfaction or a dispute) continuing in a persistent but low-key way.| a rumbling dispute about changes to working conditions
	- rumble
		> 隆隆響 |Make a continuous deep, resonant sound.| thunder rumbled, lightning flickered
		> 隆隆聲 |A continuous deep, resonant sound like distant thunder.| the continuous rumble of traffic
		> 聲音低沉地說話/咕噥 |Utter in a deep, resonant voice.| the man's low voice rumbled an instruction
		> 發出飢腸轆轆的聲音 |(of a person's stomach) make a deep, resonant sound due to hunger.| as she passed the buffet car her stomach rumbled
		> 街頭鬥毆 |Take part in a street fight between gangs or large groups.| the five of them rumbled with the men in the other car
		> 街頭鬥毆 |A street fight between gangs or large groups.| a rumble between two gangs of street thugs
	? our small intestine is actually a huge **neat** **freak** 這是因為我們的小腸其實 是個很愛乾淨的怪胎
	- neat
		> 整潔的/整齊的 |Arranged in a tidy way; in good order.| the books had been stacked up in neat piles
		> 愛乾淨的 |(of a person) habitually tidy, smart, or well organized.| her daughter was always neat and clean
		> 好看的 |Having a pleasing appearance; well formed.| Alan noted down the orders in his neat, precise script
		> 熟練的 |Done with or demonstrating skill or efficiency.| a  neat bit of deduction
		> 輕率的 |Tending to disregard specifics for the sake of convenience; facile.| this neat division does not take into account a host of associated factors
		> 純的 |(of liquid, especially spirits) not diluted or mixed with anything else.| he drank neat Scotch
		> 好的/妙的 |Very good; excellent.| it was really neat seeing the city
		> 牲畜 |Cattle|
	- freak
		> 反常現象 |A very unusual and unexpected event or situation| the teacher says the accident was a total freak
		> 畸形的生物或植物 |freak of nature| a few freaks have been discovered, one amazing cat tipping the scales at no less than 43 lbs
		> 怪胎 |A person regarded as strange because of their unusual appearance or behaviour.| he used to be called a freak at school and knows how much it hurts
		> 狂熱者 |A person who is obsessed with a particular activity or interest.| a fitness freak
		> 藥物成癮者 |A person addicted to a particular drug.| the twins were cocaine freaks
		> 反常/使反常 |Behave or cause to behave in a wild and irrational way, typically because of the effects of extreme emotion or drugs.| he freaked out and smashed the place up
	- clean (sth) up	
		> 贏得大筆錢/賺大錢 |to win a lot of money| We cleaned up at the poker table last night.
		> 肅清 |to stop illegal or dishonest activity in a place or organization| We need a mayor who is tough enough to clean up this town.
		> 梳洗整齊/打掃/清理 |to make a person or place clean and tidy| We'll go out as soon as I've cleaned up the kitchen.
	- muscular /ˈmʌskjʊlə/ 

Or this weird, **crooked** shape of our stomach -- a bit **Quasimodo-ish**. This actually makes us be able to put pressure on our belly without vomiting, like when we're laughing and when we're doing sports, because the pressure will go up and not so much **sideways**. This also creates this air bubble that's usually always very visible in X-rays, for example, and can sometimes, with some people, when it gets too big, create discomfort or even some sensations of pain. But for most of the people, is just results that it's far easier to **burp** when you're laying on your left side instead of your right. 
	- crooked /ˈkrʊkɪd/ <--> cookie /ˈkʊki/
	- Quasimodo /ˌkwɒzɪˈməʊdəʊ/ 加西莫多，《鐘樓怪人》中的主要角色，得名於卡西莫多星期日，他天生駝背，相貌醜陋，平日裡擔任巴黎聖母院的敲鐘人一職
	+ sideways (adj/adv)
		> 向/從旁邊 |To, towards, or from the side.| she tilted her body sideways
		> |So as to occupy a job or position at the same level as one previously held rather than be promoted or demoted.| 
		> 間接 |By an indirect way.| he came into politics sideways, as campaign manager for Ronald Reagan
		> 非傳統的 |From an unconventional or unorthodox viewpoint.|
	- burp /bəːp/ 
		> 打嗝 |Noisily release air from the stomach through the mouth; belch.|
		> 使…打嗝 |Make (a baby) belch after feeding, typically by patting its back.|
		> 打嗝聲 |A noise made by air released from the stomach through the mouth; a belch.|

And soon I moved a bit further and started to look at the whole picture of our body and health. This was actually after I had heard that someone I knew a little bit had killed himself. It happened that I had been sitting next to that person the day before, and I smelled that he had very bad breath. And when I learned of the suicide the next day, I thought: Could the gut have something to do with it? And I frantically started searching if there were scientific papers on the connection of gut and brain. And to my surprise, I found many. 

It turns out it's maybe not as simple as we sometimes think. We tend to think our brain makes these commands and then sends them down to the other organs, and they all have to listen. But really, it's more that 10 percent of the nerves that connect brain and gut deliver information from the brain to the gut. We know this, for example, in stressful situations, when there are transmitters from the brain that are being sensed by our gut, so the gut will try to lower all the work, and not be working and taking away blood and energy to save energy for problem-solving. This can go as far as nervous vomiting or nervous **diarrhea** to get rid of food that it then doesn't want to digest. 
	- diarrhea /ˌdaɪəˈriə/ 腹瀉

Maybe more interestingly, 90 percent of the nervous **fibers** that connect gut and brain deliver information from our gut to our brain. And when you think about it a little bit, it does make sense, because our brain is very isolated. It's in this bony skull surrounded by a thick skin, and it needs information to put together a feeling of "How am I, as a whole body, doing?" And the gut, actually, is possibly the most important advisor for the brain because it's our largest sensory organ, collecting information not only on the quality of our nutrients, but really also on how are so many of our immune cells doing, or things like the hormones in our blood that it can sense. And it can package this information, and send it up to the brain. It can, there, not reach areas like visual **cortex** or *word formations* -- otherwise, when we digest, we would see funny colors or we would make funny noises -- no. But it can reach areas for things like **morality**, fear or emotional processing or areas for self-awareness. 
	? It can, there, not reach areas like visual cortex or word formations 而它不會到達大腦中像是 視覺皮質或是言語形成的區域
	- cortex
		> 腦皮層 |The outer layer of the cerebrum (the cerebral cortex), composed of folded grey matter and playing an important role in consciousness.|
		> 皮層/皮質 |An outer layer of another organ or body part such as a kidney (the renal cortex), the cerebellum, or a hair.|
		> 厚皮/樹皮 |An outer layer of tissue immediately below the epidermis of a stem or root.|
	- morality /məˈralɪti/ 
		> 道德/倫理 |Principles concerning the distinction between right and wrong or good and bad behaviour.| the matter boiled down to simple morality: innocent prisoners ought to be freed
		> 道德規範 |A particular system of values and principles of conduct.| a bourgeois morality
		> 道德程度 |The extent to which an action is right or wrong.| the issue of the morality of the possession of nuclear weapons

So it does make sense that when our body and our brain are putting together this feeling of, "How am I, as a whole body, doing?" that the gut has something to contribute to this process. And it also makes sense that people who have conditions like irritable *bowel syndrome* or *inflammatory bowel disease* have a higher risk of having anxiety or depression. I think this is good information to share, because many people will think, "I have this gut thing, and maybe I also have this mental health thing." And maybe -- because science is not clear on that right now -- it's really just that the brain is feeling sympathy with their gut. 
	- irritable bowel syndrome == IBS 大腸激躁症
	- inflammatory bowel disease == IBD 炎症性腸病

This has yet to grow in evidence until it can come to practice. But just knowing about these kinds of research that's out there at the moment helps me in my daily life. And it makes me think differently of my moods and not **externalize** so much all the time. I feel oftentimes during the day we are a brain and a screen, and we will tend to look for answers right there and maybe the work is stupid or our neighbor -- but really, moods can also come from within. And just knowing this helped me, for example, when I sometimes wake up too early, and I start to worry and wander around with my thoughts. Then I think, "Stop. What did I eat yesterday? Did I stress myself out too much? Did I eat too late or something?" And then maybe get up and make myself a tea, *something light to digest*. And as simple as that sounds, I think it's been surprisingly good for me. 
	- externalize
		> 賦予外形 |Give external existence or form to.| elements of the internal construction were externalized on to the facade
		> 使具體化 |Express (a thought or feeling) in words or actions.| an urgent need to externalize the experience
		> 投射 |Project (a mental image or process) on to a figure outside oneself.| such neuroses are externalized as interpersonal conflicts
		> |Fail or choose not to incorporate (costs) as part of a pricing structure, especially social and environmental costs resulting from a product's manufacture and use.|

Step three took me further away from our body, and to really understanding bacteria differently. The research we have today is creating a new definition of what real cleanliness is. And it's not the **hygiene hypothesis** -- I think many maybe know this. So it states that when you have too little microbes in your environment because you clean all the time, that's not really a good thing, because people get more **allergies** or **autoimmune** diseases then. So I knew this hypothesis, and I thought I wouldn't learn so much from looking at cleanliness in the gut. But I was wrong. 
	- hygiene hypothesis 衛生假說
	- hygiene /ˈhʌɪdʒiːn/ 衛生/衛生情況 == Conditions or practices conducive to maintaining health and preventing disease, especially through cleanliness.
	- hypothesis 假說 <--> hypocrisy
	* allergy /ˈalədʒi/ 
		> 過敏 |A damaging immune response by the body to a substance, especially a particular food, pollen, fur, or dust, to which it has become hypersensitive.|
		> 厭惡 |A strong dislike.| their allergy to free enterprise
	- autoimmune disease == AID 自體免疫性疾病，是人體內的異常的免疫反應攻擊了正常細胞

It turns out, real cleanliness is not about killing off bacteria right away. Real cleanliness is a bit different. When we look at the facts, 95 percent of all bacteria on this planet don't harm us -- they can't, they don't have the genes to do so. Many, actually, help us a lot, and scientists at the moment are looking into things like: Do some bacteria help us clean the gut? Do they help us digest? Do they make us put on weight or have a lean figure although we're eating lots? Are others making us feel more **courageous** or even more **resilient** to stress? So you see, there are more questions when it comes to cleanliness. And, actually, the thing is, it's about a healthy balance, I think. You can't avoid the bad all the time. This is simply not possible; there's always something bad around. So what really the whole deal is when you look at a clean gut, it's about having good bacteria, enough of them, and then some bad. Our immune system needs the bad, too, so it knows what it's looking out for. 
	- courageous /kəˈreɪdʒəs/ 
	- resilient /rɪˈzɪlɪənt/ 
		> 能迅速恢復的 |(of a person or animal) able to withstand or recover quickly from difficult conditions.| babies are generally far more resilient than new parents realize
		> 有彈性的 |(of a substance or object) able to recoil or spring back into shape after bending, stretching, or being compressed.| a shoe with resilient cushioning

So I started having this different perspective on cleanliness and a few weeks later, I held a talk at my university, and I made a mistake by 1,000. And I went home and I realized in that moment, I was like, "Ah! I made a mistake by 1,000. Oh God, that's so much, and that's so embarrassing." And I started to think about this, I was like, "Ugh!" And after a while I said, "OK, I made this one mistake, but then I also told so many good and right and helpful things, so I think it's OK, you know? It's a clean thing." And then I was like, "Oh, wait. Maybe I took my perspective on cleanliness further." And it's my theory at the moment that maybe we all do. Take it a bit further than just cleaning our living room, where maybe we make it to sort like a **life hygiene**. Knowing that this is about **fostering** the good just as much as trying to **shelter** yourself from the bad had a very calming effect on me. 
	- shelter /ˈʃɛltə/ <--> shout /ʃaʊt/ 
 
So in that sense, I hope today I told you mostly good and helpful things, and thank you for your time, for listening to me. 