[The best kindergarten you’ve ever seen](https://www.ted.com/talks/takaharu_tezuka_the_best_kindergarten_you_ve_ever_seen/transcript?referrer=playlist-surprisingly_fun_ted_talks&language=en)

This is a kindergarten we designed in 2007. We made this kindergarten to be a circle. It's a kind of **endless** circulation on top of the roof. If you are a parent, you know that kids love to keep making circles. This is how the rooftop looks. 
	- endless /ˈɛndləs/ 

And why did we design this? The principal of this kindergarten said, "No, I don't want a **handrail**." I said, "It's impossible." But he insisted: "How about having a net *sticking out* from the edge of the roof? So that it can catch the children falling off?" (Laughter) I said, "It's impossible." 
	- handrail /ˈhandreɪl/ 扶手/欄杆 == A rail fixed to posts or a wall for people to hold on to for support.
	- stick out
		> 探出/露出/凸出 |to go past the surface or edge of something| There was a handkerchief sticking out of his jacket pocket.
		> 顯眼/突出 |to be very easy to notice| She certainly sticks out in a crowd.

And of course, the government official said, "Of course you have to have a handrail." But we could keep that idea around the trees. There are three trees **popping through**. And we were allowed to call this rope as a handrail. But of course, rope has nothing to do with them. They fall into the net. And you get more, and more, more. (Laughter) Sometimes 40 children are around a tree. The boy on the branch, he loves the tree so he is eating the tree. (Laughter) 
	+ pop 
		> 發出砰或啪的響聲 |Make or cause to make a light explosive sound.| corks popped and glasses tinkled
		> |(of a person's ears) make a small popping sound within the head as pressure is equalized, typically because of a change of altitude.|
		> 砰的一聲/啪的一聲 |A light explosive sound.| there were a few pops, perhaps from pistols
		> ADV 砰或的一聲地 |With a light explosive sound.| the champagne went pop
		> 加熱使炸裂 |Heat (popcorn or another foodstuff) until it bursts open.| the hot-air popper pops 4 quarts of popcorn in 5 minutes
		> 迅速地來去|Go somewhere for a short time, often without notice.| she popped in to see if she could help
		> 迅速地移動..到 |Put or move (something) somewhere quickly.| she popped a pen into her pocket
 		> 迅速打開 |Release, open, or engage (something) quickly or suddenly.| he pulled a can of beer from the refrigerator and popped its tab
		> 突出/瞪 |(of a person's eyes) open wide and appear to bulge, especially with surprise.| the man's eyes popped in disbelief
		> 使更加顯眼 |Appear brighter or more striking in juxtaposition with something of a different or complementary colour.| she added a slick of red lipstick to make the outfit pop
		> 亮色布塊 |A patch of bright colour.| I like wearing a neutral outfit with one pop of yellow
		> 服用/注射 |Take or inject (a drug)| Williams had spent his life hitting the bottle and popping pills
		> 含氣飲料 |A sweet fizzy drink such as lemonade.| a bottle of pop
		> 通俗的/流行的 |Relating to commercial popular music.| pop singers
		> 普遍化的 |(especially of a scientific or academic subject) made accessible to the general public; popularized.| pop psychology
		> 流行音樂 |pop music|
		> 流行歌曲 |A pop record or song.|
		> 爸爸 |father|
		> 冰棒 |A piece of flavoured ice or ice cream on a stick.| mango-flavoured ice pops

And at the time of an event, they sit on the edge. It looks so nice from underneath. Monkeys in the zoo. (Laughter) Feeding time. (Laughter) (Applause) 

And we made the roof as low as possible, because we wanted to see children on top of the roof, not only **underneath** the roof. And if the roof is too high, you see only the **ceiling**. 
	- underneath /ʌndəˈniːθ/ 
	- ceiling /ˈsiːlɪŋ/ 

And the leg washing place -- there are many kinds of water **taps**. You see with the **flexible** **tubes**, you want to spray water to your friends, and the shower, and the one in front is quite normal. But if you look at this, the boy is not washing his boots, he's putting water into his boots. (Laughter) 
	+ tap /tap/ 
		> 龍頭/閥門 |A device by which a flow of liquid or gas from a pipe or container can be controlled.| she turned the cold tap on
		> 竊聽器 |A device connected to a telephone for listening secretly to someone's conversations.| those taps produced hundreds of hours of recordings
		> 竊聽 |An act of listening secretly to someone's telephone conversation.|
		> 塞子/栓子 |An instrument for cutting a threaded hole in a material.|
		> 拔掉塞子 |Draw liquid through the tap or spout of (a cask, barrel, or other container)| several barrels had been tapped to celebrate old victories
		> 倒出 |Draw (liquid) from a cask, barrel, or other container.| in the cellars of the monasteries the butlers were tapping new and old ale
		> 在..上刻痕取液 |Draw sap from (a tree) by cutting into it.|
		> 利用/開闢 |Exploit or draw a supply from (a resource)| clients from industry seeking to tap Edinburgh's resources of expertise
		> 從..身上獲取金錢或資訊 |Obtain money or information from (someone)| he considered whom he could tap for information
		> 在…裝竊聽器 |Connect a device to (a telephone) so that conversation can be listened to secretly.| the telephones were tapped by the state security police
		> 開出螺絲洞 |Cut a thread in (something) to accept a screw.| on most vices, the metal jaws are drilled and tapped to accept screws
		> 輕拍/輕叩 |Strike with a quick light blow or blows.| one of my staff tapped me on the shoulder
		> 輕敲 |Strike (something) against something else with a quick light blow or blows.| Gloria was tapping her feet in time to the music
		> 輕拍 |A quick light blow, or the sound of such a blow.| there was a sharp tap at the door
		> 踢踏舞 |Tap dancing.| a rhythm much used in tap
		> 鍵入 |Write or enter (something) using a keyboard or keypad.| he tapped out a few words on the keyboard
		> 指定或選擇..接收任務或殊榮 |Designate or select (someone) for a task or honour, especially membership of an organization or committee.| he had been tapped earlier to serve in Costa Rica
		> 踢踏舞鞋鐵片 |A piece of metal attached to the toe and heel of a tap dancer's shoe to make a tapping sound.|
		> taps 熄燈號 |A bugle call for lights to be put out in army quarters.| the bugler played taps
		> 葬禮號 |A bugle call sounded at a military funeral.|
	- flexible /ˈflɛksɪb(ə)l/ 
	- tube /tjuːb/ 

This kindergarten is completely open, most of the year. And there is no boundary between inside and outside. So it means basically this architecture is a roof. And also there is no boundary between classrooms. So there is no **acoustic** barrier at all. When you put many children in a quiet box, some of them get really nervous. But in this kindergarten, **there** is no reason they get nervous. Because there is no boundary. 
	- acoustic /əˈkuːstɪk/ 
	- there /ðɛː/, /ðə/ 

And the principal says if the boy in the corner doesn't want to stay in the room, we let him go. He will come back eventually, because it's a circle, it comes back. (Laughter) 

But the point is, in that kind of occasion, usually children try to hide somewhere. But here, just they leave and come back. It's a natural process. 

And secondly, we consider noise very important. You know that children sleep better in noise. They don't sleep in a quiet space. And in this kindergarten, these children show amazing concentration in class. And you know, our kind grew up in the jungle with noise. They need noise. And you know, you can talk to your friends in a noisy bar. You are not supposed to be in silence. 

And you know, these days we are trying to make everything under control. You know, it's completely open. And you should know that we can go **skiing** in -20 degrees in winter. In summer you go **swimming**. The sand is 50 degrees. And also, you should know that you are waterproof. You never melt in rain. So, children are supposed to be outside. So that is how we should treat them. 
	- skiing /ˈskiːɪŋ/ 滑雪
	- swimming /ˈswɪmɪŋ/ 游泳

This is how **they** divide classrooms. They are supposed to help teachers. They don't. (Laughter) I didn't put him in. A classroom. And a **washbasin**. They talk to each other around the **well**. And there are always some trees in the classroom. A monkey trying to fish another monkey **from above**. (Laughter) Monkeys. (Laughter) And each classroom has at least one **skylight**. And this is where Santa Claus comes down at the time of Christmas. 
	- they /ðeɪ/ 
	- washbasin /ˈwɒʃbeɪs(ə)n/ 洗臉盆/洗手盆
	+ well /wɛl/ -> better -> best
		> 好地 |In a good or satisfactory way.| the whole team played well
		> 恰當地 |In a way that is appropriate to the facts or circumstances.| you did well to come and tell me
		> 好運地 |So as to have a fortunate outcome.| his campaign was not going well
		> 親切地 |In a kind way.| the animals will remain loyal to humans if treated well
		> 讚賞地 |With praise or approval.| people spoke well of him
		> 鎮定地 |With equanimity.| she took it very well, all things considered
		> 有利地 |Profitably; advantageously.| she would marry well or not at all
		> 繁榮地/舒適地 |In a condition of prosperity or comfort.| they lived well and were generous with their money
		> 徹底地 |In a thorough manner.| add the mustard and lemon juice and mix well
		> 相當地 |To a great extent or degree (often used for emphasis)| the visit had been planned well in advance
		> 親密地/深入地 |Intimately; closely.| he knew my father very well
		> (強調) |Used as an intensifier.| I should jolly well hope so
		> 非常可能地 |Very probably; in all likelihood.| being short of breath may well be the first sign of asthma
		> 輕易地 |Without difficulty.| she could well afford to pay for the reception herself
		> 有好理由地 |With good reason.| ‘What are we doing here?’ ‘You may well ask.’
		> 健康的 |In good health; free or recovered from illness.| I don't feel very well
		> 安好的 |In a satisfactory state or position.| I do hope all is well with you and your family
		> 明智的 |Sensible; advisable.| it would be well to know just what this suggestion entails
		> 啊/哎呀 |Used to express a range of emotions including surprise, anger, resignation, or relief.| Well, really! The manners of some people!
		> 嗯 |Used when pausing to consider one's next words, to mark the resumption or end of a conversation, etc.| well, I suppose I could fit you in at 3.45
		> 噯 |Used to indicate that one is waiting for an answer or explanation from someone.| Well? You promised to tell me all about it
		> 井 |A shaft sunk into the ground to obtain water, oil, or gas.|
		> 凹處 |A depression made to hold liquid.| put the flour on a flat surface and make a well to hold the eggs
		> 大量 |A plentiful source or supply.| she could feel a deep well of sympathy and compassion
		> 井 |An enclosed space in the middle of a building, giving room for stairs or a lift, or to allow light or ventilation.|
		> 酒吧酒架 |A shelf beneath the counter of a bar on which bottles of alcohol are stored within easy reach of the person serving.|
		> 便宜的(酒) |Denoting or made with the relatively inexpensive brands of alcohol stored in the well of a bar.| happy hour is from 4 to 7 p.m. weekdays, with $4 well drinks and draft beers
		> 低場域 |A region of minimum potential.| a gravity well
	- skylight 天窗 == A window set in a roof or ceiling at the same angle.

This is the **annex** building, right next to that **oval-shaped** kindergarten. The building is only five meters tall with seven floors. And of course, the ceiling height is very low. So you have to consider safety. So, we put our children, a **daughter** and a son. They tried to go in. He hit his head. He's okay. His **skull** is quite strong. He is resilient. It's my son. (Laughter) And he is trying to see if it is safe to jump off. And then we put other children. 
	- annex /əˈnɛks/ 
	- oval /ˈəʊv(ə)l/
	- skull /skʌl/ 

The traffic jam is awful in Tokyo, as you know. (Laughter) The driver in front, she needs to learn how to drive. Now these days, kids need a small **dosage** of danger. And in this kind of occasion, **they learn** to help each other. This is society. This is the kind of **opportunity** we are losing these days. 
	- dosage /ˈdəʊsɪdʒ/ 
		> 劑量 |The size or frequency of a dose of a medicine or drug.| a dosage of 450 milligrams a day
		> |A level of exposure to or absorption of ionizing radiation.|
	- opportunity /ɒpəˈtjuːnɪti/ 

Now, this drawing is showing the movement of a boy between 9:10 and 9:30. And the **circumference** of this building is 183 meters. So it's not exactly small at all. And this boy did 6,000 meters in the morning. But the surprise is yet to come. The children in this kindergarten do 4,000 meters on average. And these children have the highest **athletic** abilities among many kindergartens. The principal says, "I don't train them. We **leave** them on top of the roof. Just like **sheep**." (Laughter) They keep running. (Laughter)
	- circumference /səˈkʌmf(ə)r(ə)ns/ 
	- athletic /aθˈlɛtɪk/ 
	- sheep /ʃiːp/  <--> ship /ʃɪp/

My point is don't control them, don't protect them too much, and they need to tumble sometimes. They need to get some injury. And that makes them learn how to live in this world. I think architecture is capable of changing this world, and people's lives. And this is one of the attempts to change the lives of children. 