[How I made friends with reality](https://www.ted.com/talks/emily_levine_how_i_made_friends_with_reality?referrer=playlist-surprisingly_fun_ted_talks&language=en)

I'm going to first tell you something that in my grandmother **would've** **elicited** a five-oy alarm: "Oy-oy-oy-oy-oy." (Laughter) And here it is ... are you ready? OK. I have stage IV **lung** cancer. Oh, I know, "poor me." I don't feel that way. I'm so OK with it. And granted, I have certain advantages -- not everybody can take so **cavalier** an attitude. I don't have young children. I have a grown daughter who's brilliant and happy and wonderful. I don't have huge financial stress. My cancer isn't that aggressive. It's kind of like the Democratic leadership -- 
	- elicit /ɪˈlɪsɪt/ 引出 == Evoke or draw out (a reaction, answer, or fact) from someone.
		> I tried to elicit a smile from Joanna
	- lung /lʌŋ/ <--> long /lɒŋ/ 
	? not everybody can take so **cavalier** an attitude. 不是每個人都能採取無憂無慮的態度
	+ cavalier /ˌkavəˈlɪə/ 
		> 護花使者 |dashing and attentive man, especially one acting as a lady's escort.|
		> 保王黨支持者 |A supporter of King Charles I in the English Civil War.|
		> 查理斯王騎士犬 |Cavalier King Charles|
		> 漫不經心的 |Showing a lack of proper concern; offhand.| Anne was irritated by his cavalier attitude

not convinced it can win. It's basically just sitting there, waiting for **Goldman Sachs** to give it some money. 
	- Goldman Sachs 高盛集團，一家美國跨國投資銀行與金融服務公司，其總部位於紐約市曼哈頓

Oh, and the best thing of all -- I have a major accomplishment *under my belt*. Yes. I didn't even know it until someone tweeted me a year ago. And here's what they said: "You are responsible for the **pussification** of the American male." 
	- have sth under one's belt 已經掌握/已經獲得 == to have learned or succeeded in something that might be an advantage in the future
		> Basic computer skills are a good thing to have under your belt.
	- pussify 使柔弱 == Weaken or emasculate.

Not that I can take all the credit, but ... 

But what if you don't have my advantages? The only advice I can give you is to do what I did: make friends with reality. You couldn't have a worse relationship with reality than I did. *From the get-go*, I wasn't even attracted to reality. If they'd had Tinder when I met reality, I would have swiped left and the whole thing would have been over. 

And reality and I -- we don't share the same values, the same goals -- 

To be honest, I don't have goals; I have fantasies. They're exactly like goals but without the hard work. 

I'm not a big fan of hard work, but you know reality -- it's either push, push, push, push, push through its agent, the **executive** brain function -- one of the "yays" of dying: my executive brain function won't have me to *kick around* anymore. 
	? it's either push, push, push, push, push through its agent, the **executive** brain function -- one of the "yays" of dying 它就是不斷推、推、推、推、推，透過它的代理人，大腦執行功能 —— 邁向死亡的「好呀」之一
	+ executive /ɪɡˈzɛkjʊtɪv/ 
		> 執行的 |Relating to or having the power to put plans or actions into effect.| an executive chairman
		> 行政上的 |Denoting or relating to the part of a political administration with responsibility for putting into effect laws drawn up by the legislature.|
		> 執行者/經理/業務主管 |A person with senior managerial responsibility in a business.| account executives
		> 商業用 |Suitable for a senior business executive.| an executive house
		> 執行委員會 |An executive committee or other body within an organization.| the union executive
		> 行政部門 |The branch of a government responsible for putting decisions or laws into effect.|
	- kick around
		> 隨意地討論 |to discuss an idea or suggestion in an informal way| We kicked around a few ideas.
		> 不公平地對待 |to treat someone in an unkind and unfair way| He told reporters they wouldn’t be able to kick him around any more.
		> 在..閒晃 |if people are kicking around, or kicking around a place, they are in that place without any definite plans| Two friends and I decided to kick around the Loch Tay area for a few days.
		> 在某處 |if something is kicking around, you have it but you are not sure exactly where it is| There’s a box of matches kicking around somewhere.
		> 閒置/棄置 |if an idea or suggestion is kicking around, people know about it but no one is doing much about it| The idea of a new school gym has been kicking around for a while now.
		> 踢球 |to kick a ball in a casual way without showing much enthusiasm or seriousnes| The boys were kicking a ball around in the back yard.

But something happened that made me realize that reality may not be reality. So what happened was, because I basically wanted reality to leave me alone -- but I wanted to be left alone in a nice house with *a Wolf range and Sub-Zero refrigerator* ... private yoga lessons -- I ended up with a development deal at Disney. And one day I found myself in my new office on *Two Dopey Drive* -- 
	? I wanted to be left alone in a nice house with *a Wolf range and Sub-Zero refrigerator* 我希望被丟在一間很好的房子裡， 裡面有頂級的廚具和冰箱
	+ range
		> 幅度 |The area of variation between upper and lower limits on a particular scale.| the cost will be in the range of $1–5 million a day
		> 範圍 |The scope of a person's knowledge or abilities.| in this film he gave some indication of his range
		> 範圍 |The compass of a person's voice or a musical instrument.| she was gifted with an incredible vocal range
		> 時期 |The period of time covered by something such as a forecast.| The economy had reached a turning point, and during the forecast's range, it would end up in an economic recovery phase.
		> 區域 |The area covered by or included in something.| a guide to the range of debate this issue has generated
		> 一系列 |A set of different things of the same general type.| the area offers a wide range of activities for the tourist
		> 最大距離 |The distance within which a person can see or hear.| something lurked just beyond her range of vision
		> 最大射程 |The maximum distance to which a gun will shoot or over which a missile will travel.| these rockets have a range of 30 to 40 miles
		> 最大傳播距離 |The maximum distance at which a radio transmission can be effectively received.| planets within radio range of Earth
		> 最大行程 |The distance that can be covered by a vehicle or aircraft without refuelling.| the vans have a range of 125 miles
		> 最大拍攝距離 |The distance between a camera and the subject to be photographed.| handheld shots taken at extreme telephoto ranges can be pretty wobbly affairs
		> 山脈 |A line or series of mountains or hills.| a mountain range
		> 放牧地 |A large area of open land for grazing or hunting.| on dude ranches, tourists put on crisp new western gear to ride the range
		> 試射場 |An area of land or sea used as a testing ground for military equipment.| the cost of dealing with unexploded shells and bombs on former military ranges
		> 靶場 |An open or enclosed area with targets for shooting practice.| he went down to the ranges to practise shooting
		> 分佈範圍 |The area over which a plant or animal is distributed.| the chimpanzee extensively overlaps the gorilla in its forest range
		> 多爐爐灶 |A large cooking stove with burners or hotplates and one or more ovens, all of which are kept continually hot.| a wood-burning kitchen range
		> 電爐/瓦斯爐 |An electric or gas cooker.|
		> 排狀建築物 |A row of buildings.| Townesend's Durham quadrangle range at Trinity College
		> 位在..的範圍 |Vary or extend between specified limits.| prices range from £30 to £100
		> 排列 |Place or arrange in a row or rows or in a specified manner.| a table with half a dozen chairs ranged around it
		> 延展 |Run or extend in a line in a particular direction.| he regularly came to the benches that ranged along the path
		> 漫遊/閒晃 |(of a person or animal) travel or wander over a wide area.| patrols ranged deep into enemy territory
		> 游移 |(of a person's eyes) pass from one person or thing to another.| his eyes ranged over them
		> 包含多個主題 |(of something written or spoken) cover a wide number of different topics.| tutorials ranged over a variety of subjects
		> 對準/測定距離 |Obtain the range of a target by adjustment after firing past it or short of it, or by the use of radar or laser equipment.| radar-type transmissions which appeared to be ranging on our convoys
		> 覆蓋 |(of a projectile) cover a specified distance.| Prithvi II is the air force version and Prithvi III the naval version of the missile ranging up to 250 and 750 km respectively.
		> 射程為|(of a gun) send a projectile over a specified distance.| A 12" gun can range past 30000 yards.
	- range oneself against 使對立 == Place oneself or be placed in opposition to (a person or group)
		> Japan ranged herself against the European nations
	- Two Dopey Drive 迪士尼路名(Dopey Drive 2號)

which reality thought I should be proud of ... 

And I'm staring at the present they sent me to celebrate my arrival -- not *the Lalique vase* or the grand piano I've heard of other people getting, but a three-foot-tall, stuffed Mickey Mouse 

with a catalog, in case I wanted to order some more stuff that didn't **jibe** with my aesthetic. 
	+ jibe

And when I looked up in the catalog to see how much this three-foot-high mouse cost, here's how it was described ... "Life-sized." 
	? here's how it was described ... "Life-sized." 我看到它被這樣描述…… 「實體大小」
	- life-size 真人大小的/實物大小的 == A life-sized work of art or model is the same size as the person or thing that it represents.
		> a life-size statue of an elephant

And that's when I knew. Reality wasn't "reality." Reality was an **imposter**. 
	- imposter /ɪmˈpɒstə/  冒名頂替者/騙子 == A person who pretends to be someone else in order to deceive others, especially for fraudulent gain.
		> the charity has warned anyone approached by the impostor to contact police immediately

So I **dived** into quantum physics and chaos theory to try to find actual reality, and I've just finished a movie -- yes, finally finished -- about all that, so I won't go into it here, and anyway, it wasn't until after we shot the movie, when I broke my leg and then it didn't heal, so then they had to do another surgery a year later, and then that took a year -- two years in a **wheelchair**, and that's when I came into contact with actual reality: limits. 
	- wheelchair /ˈwiːltʃɛː/ 輪椅

Those very limits I'd spent my whole life denying and pushing past and ignoring were real, and I had to deal with them, and they took imagination, creativity and my entire skill set. It turned out I was great at actual reality. I didn't just come to **terms with** it, I fell in love. And I should've known, given my equally **shaky** relationship with the **zeitgeist** ... I'll just say, if anyone is in the market for a **Betamax** -- 
	- come to terms with 逐漸接受 == to gradually accept a sad situation, often the death of someone you love
		> she had come to terms with the tragedies in her life
		> I think he's still coming to terms with the death of his wife.
	- shaky
		> 顫抖的 |Shaking or trembling.| he managed a shaky laugg
		> 不牢固的 |Unstable because of poor construction or heavy use.| a cracked, dangerously shaky table
		> 不牢靠的/不安全的 |Not safe or reliable; liable to fail or falter.| thoroughly shaky evidence
	+ zeitgeist /ˈzʌɪtɡʌɪst/ 
	- Betamax 是一種年份較早的專業用 19.1公釐 U-matic錄影帶演進而來的 12.7公釐 家用錄影帶格式

I should have known that the moment I fell in love with reality, the rest of the country would decide to go in the opposite direction. 

But I'm not here to talk about Trump or the **alt-right** or climate-change deniers or even the makers of this thing, which I would have called a box, except that right here, it says, "This is not a box." 
	- alt-right == alternative right 另類右派，是美國右派政治思想中反對主流保守主義的一個派別。這一派別總體上並無正式確定的政治理念，但其擁護者多支持2016年大選中的共和黨候選人唐納·川普

They're **gaslighting** me. 
	- gaslight
		> 瓦斯燈/煤氣燈 |A type of lamp in which an incandescent mantle is heated by a jet of burning gas.| an era of gaslights and horse-drawn carriages
		> 煤氣燈的光 |The light produced by a gaslight.| in the gaslight she looked paler than ever
		> 煤氣燈操縱(一種心理操縱，其名稱來源於寫於1938年的劇本《Gas Light》，目的是使受害者質疑自己的記憶、感知和理智。這種手段利用否定、誤導和謊言，試圖破壞受害者情緒的穩定，使受害者最終懷疑自己相信的現實是否屬實。) |Manipulate (someone) by psychological means into doubting their own sanity.| in the first episode, Karen Valentine is being gaslighted by her husband

But what I do want to talk about is a personal challenge to reality that I take personally, and I want to **preface** it by saying that I absolutely love science. I have this -- not a scientist myself -- but an **uncanny** ability to understand everything about science, except the actual science -- 
	- preface 
		> 序言 |An introduction to a book, typically stating its subject, scope, or aims.|
		> 初步解釋 |A preliminary explanation.| it was an abrupt question, made without even the preface of a greeting
		> 序誦/序禱 |The introduction to the central part of the Eucharist, historically forming the first part of the canon or prayer of consecration. In the Western Church it comes between the Sursum Corda and the Sanctus and varies with the season.|
		> 為……加序言 |Provide (a book) with a preface.| the book is prefaced by a quotation from William Faulkner
	- preface sth by/with 以..作為……的開端 == Introduce or begin (a speech or event) with or by doing something.
		> it is important to preface the debate with a general comment
	- uncanny 奇怪的/神秘的 == Strange or mysterious, especially in an unsettling way.
		> an uncanny feeling that she was being watched

which is math. But the most **outlandish** concepts make sense to me. The string theory; the idea that all of reality **emanates** from the vibrations of these **teeny** -- I call it "The Big **Twang**." 
	- outlandish /aʊtˈlandɪʃ/ 
	- emanates /ˈɛməneɪt/ 
	- teeny 微小的 == tiny
	- twang /twaŋ/ 
		> 撥弦聲 |A strong ringing sound such as that made by the plucked string of a musical instrument or a released bowstring.| there was a twang from Marian's bow
		> 鼻音/帶鼻音的方言 |A nasal or other distinctive manner of pronunciation or intonation characteristic of the speech of an individual, area, or country.| an American twang
		> (使)發出撥弦聲 |Make or cause to make a twang.| a spring twanged beneath him
		> 帶鼻音說 |Utter (something) with a nasal twang.| the announcer was twanging out all the details

Wave-particle **duality**: the idea that one thing can manifest as two things ... you know? That a **photon** can manifest as a wave and a particle coincided with my deepest intuitions that people are good and bad, ideas are right and wrong. **Freud** was right about **penis** **envy** and he was wrong about who has it. 
	- duality /djuːˈalɪti/ 
		> 雙重性 |The quality or condition of being dual.| this duality of purpose was discernible in the appointments
		> 雙重性 |The property of two theorems, expressions, etc., of being dual to each other.| These two dualities reduce the number of distinct theories from five to three.
		> 二象性 |The quantum-mechanical property of being regardable as both a wave and a particle.|
		> 對比性/二元論 |An instance of opposition or contrast between two concepts or two aspects of something; a dualism.| his photographs capitalize on the dualities of light and dark, stillness and movement
	- photon 光子，是一種基本粒子，是電磁輻射的量子。在量子場論裏是負責傳遞電磁力的力載子。這種作用力的效應在微觀層次或宏觀層次都可以很容易地觀察到，因為光子的靜止質量為零，它可以移動至很遠距離，這也意味著它在真空中的傳播速度是光速。如同其它微觀粒子，光子具有波粒二象性，能夠展現出波動性與粒子性。
	- Sigmund Freud 西格蒙德·佛洛伊德
	- penis envy 陰莖羨妒，又稱陽具羨妒，是一種性心理發展期的假定，女孩有意識或無意識的具有陰莖羨妒情結，並且令自己有成為男孩而發出的性別困擾的心理假定
	- penis /ˈpiːnɪs/ <--> peanut /ˈpiːnʌt/ 

Thank you. 

And then there's this slight variation on that, which is reality looks like two things, but it turns out to be the interaction of those two things, like space -- time, mass -- energy and life and death. So I don't understand -- I simply just don't understand the mindset of people who are out to "defeat death" and "overcome death." How do you do that? How do you defeat death without *killing off* life? It doesn't make sense to me. 
	- kill off 徹底破壞/徹底除去 == to destroy or remove someone or something completely:
		> Killing off predators such as grizzly bears could throw the ecosystem out of balance.
		> The worship of celebrities has killed off common sense in America .

I also have to say, I find it incredibly **ungrateful**. I mean, you're given this extraordinary gift -- life -- but it's as if you had asked Santa for a **Rolls-Royce Silver Shadow** and you had gotten a **salad spinner** instead. You know, it's the **beef** -- the beef with it is that it comes with an expiration date. Death is the deal breaker. I don't get that. I don't understand -- to me, it's disrespectful. It's disrespectful to nature. The idea that we're going to dominate nature, we're going to master nature, nature is too weak to withstand our intellect -- no, I don't think so. I think if you've actually read quantum physics as I have -- well, I read an email from someone who'd read it, but -- 
	- Rolls-Royce Silver Shadow == a luxury car that was produced by British automaker Rolls-Royce in various forms from 1965 to 1980.
	- Rolls-Royce 勞斯萊斯
	- salad spinner 蔬果脫水器
	+ beef
		> 牛肉 |The flesh of a cow, bull, or ox, used as food.| there was the smell of roast beef
		> 食用牛 |A cow, bull, or ox fattened for its meat.| a beef sent to the abattoir
		> 肌肉 |Flesh with well-developed muscle.| he needs a little more beef on his bones
		> 力量 |Strength or power.| he was brought in to give the team more beef
		> 要點 |The substance of a matter.| it's more a sketch than a policy — where's the beef?
		> 抱怨/牢騷 |A complaint or grievance.| he has a beef with education: it doesn't teach the basics of investing
		> 申訴/指控 |A criminal charge.| getting caught with pot in the sixties was a narco beefㄏ
		> 抱怨 |Complain.| he was beefing about how the recession was killing the business

You have to understand that we don't live in **Newton's** **clockwork** universe anymore. We live in a *banana peel* universe, and we won't ever be able to know everything or control everything or predict everything. Nature is like a self-driving car. The best we can be is like the old woman in that joke -- I don't know if you've heard it. An old woman is driving with her middle-aged daughter in the passenger seat, and the mother goes right through a red light. And the daughter doesn't want to say anything that makes it sound like, "You're too old to drive," so she didn't say anything. And then the mother goes through a second red light, and the daughter, as tactfully as possible, says, "Mom, are you aware that you just went through two red lights?" And the mother says, "Oh, am I driving?" 
	- clockwork
		> 發條裝置 |A mechanism with a spring and toothed gearwheels, used to drive a mechanical clock, toy, or other device.| quartz watches are more accurate than those driven by clockwork
		> 發條啟動的 |Driven by clockwork.| a clockwork motor
		> 規律的 |Very smooth and regular.| the clockwork precision of the galaxy
		> 可預測的 |Repetitive and predictable.| it was a clockwork existence for the children
	- banana peel 香蕉皮

So ... and now, I'm going to take a **mental** leap, which is easy for me because I'm the **Evel Knievel** of mental leaps; my license plate says, "**Cogito**, **ergo** **zoom**." I hope you're willing to come with me on this, but my real problem with the mindset that is so out to defeat death is if you're anti-death, which to me translates as anti-life, which to me translates as anti-nature, it also translates to me as anti-woman, because women have long been identified with nature. And my source on this is Hannah Arendt, the German philosopher who wrote a book called "The Human Condition." And in it, she says that classically, work is associated with men. Work is what comes out of the head; it's what we invent, it's what we create, it's how we leave our mark **upon** the world. Whereas labor is associated with the body. It's associated with the people who perform labor or undergo labor. So to me, the mindset that denies that, that denies that we're in sync with the **biorhythms**, the cyclical rhythms of the universe, does not create a **hospitable** environment for women or for people associated with labor, which is to say, people that we associate as descendants of slaves, or people who perform manual labor. 
	- Evel Knievel 埃芙爾·克尼芙爾，是一位美國特技演員和藝人。在他的職業生涯中，他嘗試了超過75次斜坡到摩托車的跳躍;
	- Cogito, ergo sum 我思故我在
	+ zoom
		> 疾行 |Move or travel very quickly.| a red saloon car zoomed past
		> 直線上升 |(of prices) rise sharply.| the share index zoomed by about 136 points
		> 畫面拉近/畫面拉遠 |(of a camera) change smoothly from a long shot to a close-up or vice versa.|
		> 使畫面拉近/使畫面拉遠 |Cause (a lens or camera) to zoom in or out.|
		> 變焦攝影 |A camera shot that changes smoothly from a long shot to a close-up or vice versa.|
		> 變焦鏡頭 |zoom lens|
		> |Used to express sudden fast movement.| then suddenly, zoom!, he's off
	- biorhythm /ˈbʌɪə(ʊ)rɪð(ə)m/ 
		> 生物週期/生物節奏 |A recurring cycle in the physiology or functioning of an organism, such as the daily cycle of sleeping and waking.|
		> 生理節律 |A cyclic pattern of physical, emotional, or mental activity believed to occur in a person's life.| I found that the music suited my biorhythms
	- hospitable /hɒˈspɪtəb(ə)l/ 
		> 好客的 |Friendly and welcoming to visitors or guests.| two friendly, hospitable brothers run the hotel
		> 宜人的/宜居的 |(of an environment) pleasant and favourable for living in.| one of the least hospitable places in North America

So here's how it looks from a banana-peel-universe point of view, from my mindset, which I call "Emily's universe." First of all, I am incredibly grateful for life, but I don't want to be immortal. I have no interest in having my name live on after me. In fact, I don't want it to, because it's been my observation that no matter how nice and how brilliant or how talented you are, 50 years after you die, they turn on you. 
	? I have no interest in having my name live on after me  我對於死後讓我的名字流傳下去，並不感興趣。
	- live on 
		> 依靠..生活 |If you live on an amount of money, that is the money that you use to buy the things that you need.| We lived on very little when we first got married.
		> 靠..生存/只吃 |to only eat a particular type of food| I more or less live on pasta.

And I have actual proof of that. A headline from the Los Angeles Times: "**Anne Frank**: Not so nice after all." 
	- Anne Frank 安妮·法蘭克，生於德國法蘭克福，猶太人，二戰猶太人大屠殺中最著名的受害者之一，得年15歲，1999年入選《時代雜誌》「20世紀全世界最具影響力的100個人」
 
Plus, I love being in **sync** with the cyclical rhythms of the universe. That's what's so extraordinary about life: it's a cycle of generation, degeneration, regeneration. "I" am just a collection of particles that is arranged into this pattern, then will decompose and be available, all of its constituent parts, to nature, to **reorganize** into another pattern. To me, that is so exciting, and it makes me even more grateful to be part of that process. 
	- sync /sɪŋk/ <--> sink /sɪŋk/ 
		> 同步 |Synchronization.| images flash on to your screen in sync with the music
		> 同步 |Synchronize.| the flash needs to be synced to your camera
	- reorganize 重新組織/改組 == Change the way in which (something) is organized.
		> we have to reorganize the entire workload

You know, I look at death now from the point of view of a German biologist, Andreas Weber, who looks at it as part of the gift economy. You're given this enormous gift, life, you **enrich** it as best you can, and then you give it back. And, you know, Auntie Mame said, "Life is a **banquet**" -- well, I've eaten my fill. I have had an enormous appetite for life, I've consumed life, but in death, I'm going to be consumed. I'm going into the ground just the way I am, and there, I invite every microbe and **detritus-er** and decomposer to have their fill. I think they'll find me delicious. 
	- enrich
		> 改善 |Improve or enhance the quality or value of.| her exposure to museums enriched her life in France
		> 增進..營養價值 |Increase the nutritive value of (food) by adding vitamins or nutrients.| porridge oats enriched with extra oat bran
		> 濃縮 |Increase the proportion of a particular isotope in (an element), especially that of the isotope U-235 in uranium so as to make it suitable for use in a nuclear reactor or weapon.| they announced they would resume building the centrifuges that can enrich uranium to weapons-grade strength
		> 使富有 |Make (someone) wealthy or wealthier.| top party members had enriched themselves
	- banquet /ˈbaŋkwɪt/ 
	? I've eaten my fill 我已經吃了我足夠的份
	- eat one's fill 吃了足夠 == To eat enough that one is satisfied or no longer hungry.
		> We have plenty of mashed potatoes, so be sure to eat your fill!
	- detritus /dɪˈtrʌɪtəs/ 
		>殘渣 |Waste or debris of any kind.| the streets were foul with detritus
		> 岩屑/碎石 |Gravel, sand, silt, or other material produced by erosion.|
		> 有機質 |Organic matter produced by the decomposition of organisms.|

I do. 

So the best thing about my attitude, I think, is that it's real. You can see it. You can observe it. It actually happens. Well, maybe not my enriching the gift, I don't know about that -- but my life has certainly been enriched by other people. By TED, which introduced me to a whole network of people who have enriched my life, including Tricia McGillis, my website designer, who's working with my wonderful daughter to take my website and turn it into something where all I have to do is write a blog. I don't have to use the **executive** brain function ... Ha, ha, ha, I win! 

And I am so grateful to you. I don't want to say "the audience," because I don't really see it as we're two separate things. I think of it in terms of quantum physics, again. And, you know, quantum physicists are not exactly sure what happens when the wave becomes a particle. There are different theories -- the collapse of the wave function, **decoherence** -- but they're all agreed on one thing: that reality comes into being through an interaction. (Voice breaking) So do you. And every audience I've ever had, past and present. Thank you so much for making my life real. 
	- uantum decoherence 量子去相干，在量子力學裏，開放量子系統的量子相干性會因為與外在環境發生量子糾纏而隨著時間逐漸喪失，由於量子相干性而產生的干涉現象會因為量子去相干而變得消失無蹤。量子去相干促使系統的量子行為變遷成為古典行為，這過程稱為「量子至古典變遷」（quantum-to-classical transition）