## Topic

The following is a letter that recently appeared in the Oak City Gazette, a local newspaper.

"The primary function of the Committee for a Better Oak City is to advise the city government on how to make the best use of the city's limited budget. However, at some of our recent meetings we failed to make important decisions because of the foolish objections raised by committee members who are not even residents of Oak City. People who work in Oak City but who live elsewhere cannot fully understand the business and politics of the city. After all, only Oak City residents pay city taxes, and therefore only residents understand how that money could best be used to improve the city. We recommend, then, that the Committee for a Better Oak City vote to restrict its membership to city residents only. We predict that, without the interference of non-residents, the committee will be able to make Oak City a better place in which to live and work."

Write a response in which you discuss what questions would need to be answered in order to decide whether the recommendation is likely to have the predicted result. Be sure to explain how the answers to these questions would help to evaluate the recommendation.

## 30min

Regarding the issue, the author of the argument concludes that the committee will become better when precluding the non-residents from it. To justify the conclusion, the author points out that of the committee one member who is not the resident of Better Oak City foolishly make important decisions futile and only the residents fully realize how the business and politics of the city operates. Nevertheless, the argument fails to be completely comeplling as it stands for it contains a wide array of unwarranted sophism, due to the lack of impregnable evidences.

First of all, the author simply assume the reason why some significant decision were not achieved is that the interference of those who not even residents of Oak City. The assertion is a stretch and not substantiated in any way, though it is not entirely preposterous. It is much likely that those so-called important decisions was not truly the ones that could benefit the city. There are numerous examples that could explain the obstruction from the non-resident members. For instance, the government plans to lower their heavy tax which support their finance for a long time.  In order to reinforce the argument, the author should provide more credible evidences and have to account for and rule out other possible explanations.

Secondly, the author claims that only residents of Oak City pay the city tax; thus, the author suggests that those who are not born from the city does not understand the scheme of the city and what will conduce the city to be better. Specifically, the argument is again very weak and misleading claims as the author judges the people's ability to judge situation only depending on whether they pay the tax or not. In fact, those foreigner could know more than the native since their city government have a totally different and more efficient working system. If the author included the evidences that why their residents more realize how the city works than those non-residents, the argument could have been strengthed even further.

Finally, the author premises that people lived outside of the city can not absolutely understand the city. Undoubtedly, this is true when it comes to the case that, given for the education applied in the city, lots of materials was focused on the policies and the operation of the city. In addition, we can not utterly decline the truth that the residents actually understand the details about the city. However, the argument does not constitute a sufficient support to proclaim that the foreignr does have any chance to fully understand the place. Because even they do not lived in the city, they could still hear about many information from the Internet or those people who dare not to oppose their government.

In summary, the argument is flawed and therefore unconvincing. It could be considerably improved if the author provides more relevant facts. To assess the merits of a certain situation, it is essential to include more unbiased and contributing factors.

## Review
Regarding the issue, the author of the argument concludes that the committee will become better when precluding the non-residents from *attending* it. To justify the conclusion, the author points out that of the committee *some* *members* who *are* not the *residents* of Better Oak City foolishly make important decisions futile and only the residents fully realize how the business and politics of the city operates. Nevertheless, the argument fails to be completely compelling as it stands for it contains a wide array of unwarranted *sophistries*, due to the lack of impregnable evidences.

First of all, the author simply assume the reason why some significant decision were not achieved is that the interference of those who not even residents of Oak City. The assertion is a stretch and not substantiated in any way, though it is not entirely preposterous. It is much likely that those so-called important decisions was not truly the ones that could benefit the city. There are numerous examples that could explain the obstruction from the non-resident members. For instance, the government plans to lower their heavy tax which support their finance for a long time. **Despite the fact that the policy will hugely boost the welfare to its inhabitants, it would also engender the collapse of the government for the lack of enough resource to continue other policies.** In order to reinforce the argument, the author should provide more credible evidences and have to account for and rule out **this or** other possible explanations.

Secondly, the author claims that only residents of Oak City pay the city tax; thus, the author suggests that those who are not born from the city does not understand the scheme of the city and what will conduce the city to be better. Specifically, the argument is again *4* very weak and misleading claim as the author judges the people's ability to judge situation only depending on whether they pay the tax or not. In fact, those *foreigners* could know much more than the native since their city government have a totally different and more efficient working system, **which makes them suspicious about the new policy**. If the author included the evidences *~~that~~* why only their residents realize how the city works than those non-residents, the argument could have been *strengthened* even further.

Finally, the author premises that people *living* outside of the city can not absolutely *perceive* the **city's politics and business**. **Admittedly**, this is true especially when it comes to the case that, given for the education applied in the city, lots of materials was focused on the *politics* and the operation of the city. In addition, we can not utterly decline the truth that the residents actually understand the details about the city. However, the argument does not constitute a sufficient support to proclaim that the *foreigner* does *not* have any chance to fully understand the place. Because even they do not lived in the city, they could still hear about many information from the Internet or those people who dare not to oppose their government; **therefore, they have disparate , beneficial perspective about the elements of Oak City.**

In summary, the argument is flawed and therefore unconvincing. It could be considerably improved if the author **clearly mentions** *all* *the* relevant facts. To assess the merits of a certain situation, it is essential to include more unbiased contributing factors.