## Topic

The following appeared as part of an article in a Dillton newspaper.

"In an effort to bring new jobs to Dillton and stimulate the city's flagging economy, Dillton's city council voted last year to lower the city's corporate tax rate by 15 percent; at the same time, the city began offering generous relocation grants to any company that would move to Dillton. Since these changes went into effect, two new factories have opened in Dillton. Although the two factories employ more than 1,000 people, the unemployment rate in Dillton remains unchanged. The only clear explanation for this is that the new factories are staffed with out-of-town workers rather than Dillton residents."

Write a response in which you discuss one or more alternative explanations that could rival the proposed explanation and explain how your explanation(s) can plausibly account for the facts presented in the argument.

## 30min

Regarding the issue, the author of the argument concludes that the two new factories must employ out-of-town workers instead of Dillton residents since the unemployment rate in Dillton remains unchanged. To justify the argument, the author points out that the city council enacted some new policy that could attract companies into the city, and two factories appeared after the policy and hired more than a thousand people, which may seem plausbile at first glance. Nevertheless, the argument fails to be completely compelling as it stands for it contains a wide array of unwarranted assumptions, by virtue of the lack of impregnable evidences.

First of all, the author simply assumes that the city's new policy would have beneficial effect. The assertion is a stretch and not substantiated in any way, though it is not entirely preposterous. It is much likely that the new policy not only have positive effect but bring out negative influence on other aspects. There are numerous examples that the policy caused more problem than its advantage did. For instance, that the corporate tax decreased by 15 percent denotes that the income of the city council also decrease. To shorten the expenditure of the council, the government may decide to demit some employee from the government, which cause more the unemployed. In order to reinforce the argument, the author must furnish more credible evidences and have to account for and rule out this or other possible explanations.

What is more, the author claims that the two factories hired more than 1,000 people; thus, the author suggests that the the action must decrease the number of the unemployed in the city. Specifically, this is again a very weak and misleading claim as the argument did not expound who the 1,000 newly-employed people are. In fact, those people could be hired from the other companies, since the policy supply the two factories vantage by which the factories could attract, with higher wage, people to come to their factories. If the author provided the evidences that the 1,000 people are unexperience ones rahter than from other corporates, the argument could have been strengthened even further.

Finally, the author premises that the unemployment rate remain unchanged because out-of-town workers are hired by the new factories - thereby the number of unemployed Dillton residents did not decreased. Admittedly, is is true when it comes to the fact that the law effect immediately after they are proposed. In addition, if the two factories also emerged immediately after the policy activated. Since two events occured during a short-period, the number of unemployed could possibily remain the same. However, the argument does not constitute a sufficient support to proclaim that one event immediately followed the other. Because the number of unemployed could change during the interval, such as students graduating from college every year, we can not conclude that the undeclined unemployment rate is due to out-of-town workers hired by the factories.

In summary, the argument is flawed and therefore unconvincing. Is could be considerably improved if the author clearly mentions all revelant facts. In order to assess the merits of a certain situation, it is essential to include more unbiased contributing factors.

## Review

Regarding the issue, the author of the argument concludes that the two new factories **in Dillton** must employ out-of-town workers instead of Dillton residents since the unemployment rate in Dillton remains unchanged. To justify the argument, the author points out that the city council enacted some new policy that could attract companies into the city, and two factories appeared after the policy and hired more than a thousand people, which may seem *plausible* at first glance. Nevertheless, the argument fails to be completely compelling as it stands for it contains a wide array of unwarranted assumptions, by virtue of the lack of impregnable evidences.

First of all, the author simply assumes that the city's new policy would have beneficial effect. The assertion is a stretch and not substantiated in any way, though it is not entirely preposterous. It is much likely that the new policy not only have positive effect but bring out negative influence on other aspects. There are numerous examples that the policy caused more problem than its advantage did. For instance, that the corporate tax decreased by 15 percent denotes that the income of the city council also decrease. To shorten the expenditure of the council, the government may decide to **lay off** some employee from the government, which cause the unemployed *surged*. In order to reinforce the argument, the author must furnish more credible evidences and have to account for and rule out this or other possible explanations.

What is more, the author claims that the two factories hired more than 1,000 people; thus, the author suggests that the the action must decrease the number of the unemployed in the city. Specifically, this is again a very weak and misleading claim as the argument did not expound who the 1,000 newly-employed people are. In fact, those people could be hired from the other companies, since the policy supply the two factories vantage by which the factories could attract, with higher wage, people to come to their factories. If the author provided the evidences that the 1,000 people are *callow* ones *rather* than from other corporates, the argument could have been strengthened even further.

Finally, the author premises that the unemployment rate remain unchanged because out-of-town workers are hired by the new factories - thereby the number of unemployed Dillton residents did not decreased. Admittedly, is is true when it comes to the fact that the law **went into** effect immediately after they are proposed. In addition, if the two factories also emerged immediately after the policy activated, **since** two events occurred during a short-period, the number of unemployed could *possibly* remain *identical*. However, the argument does not constitute a sufficient support to proclaim that one event immediately followed the other. Because the number of unemployed could change during the interval, such as students graduating from college every year, we can not conclude that the *unaffected* unemployment rate is due to out-of-town workers hired by the factories.

In summary, the argument is flawed and therefore unconvincing. Is could be considerably improved if the author clearly mentions all **relevant** facts. In order to assess the merits of a certain situation, it is essential to include more unbiased contributing factors.