## Essay
Some people argue as if it is a general truth that providing more salary for university professor effectively improve the quality of education of universities. To be frank, I can not agree with the statement. Some reasons justifies why I think that more money doesn't necessarily represent the better quality, and I would explore only a few of the most important ones here.

To begin with, the education sometimes is not the highest priority for professors that spend long period focusing on his or her own researches. Professors take lots of time to compile their own paperwork which are the main cause of why they entitled as professor.  Taking a professor of my university as example, he enthusiastically instructed students and also struggled with his research. With some complaint on social media, I realized that schools not only request the professors to provide better education for the students but also order them to regularly submit their research paperwork to elevate the academic rank of the university. Most of professor hardly keep writing their own work and helping students to learn better by virtue of limitation of resources which include human resource, technology assistance, and, no doubt, money. In other words, only more money is a productive approach to professor whose work is totally about educating students.

Secondly, for students, professors also is not the singular resolution to benefit their growth. Schools supply more suitable location for students who are willing to learn. When it comes to education, the best source may not always be professor. For example, I am willing to attend the courses that are host by some arduous professor who concern about the doubt of the students. However, I would not regard the kind of courses as my only learning ways. To be more specific, I would appreciate and understand how the professor thinks in terms of a topic, and then I would investigate the topic from other resources which includes online courses, university libraries and some senior students. In short, I would rather anticipate that school utilize more money to provide another resources like internship assistance or more journals in libraries.

Taking into account of all these factors, we may reach the conclusion that providing more money for professors is the only option to enhance the quality of education, which is due half to the burden of professors whose responsibility are always about students and half to students' self-education which is another purpose that school should provide. Given the factors, those money can be spent on other resources rather than the salaries of professors.

## Review
Some people argue as if it is a general truth that providing more salary *to* university professor effectively improve the quality of education of universities. To be frank, I can not agree with the statement. Some reasons justifies why I think that more money doesn't necessarily represent the better quality, and I would explore only a few of the most important ones here.

To begin with, the education sometimes is not the highest priority for professors that spend long period focusing on his or her own researches. Professors take lots of time to compile their own paperwork which are the main cause of why they *are* entitled as *a* professor. Taking a professor of my university as example, he enthusiastically instructed students and also struggled with his research. With some complaint on social media, I realized that *the college* not only *requests* the professors to provide better education for the students but also order them to regularly submit their research paperwork to elevate the academic rank of the university. Most of professor hardly keep writing their own work and helping students to learn better by virtue of limitation of resources which include human resource, technology assistance, and, no doubt, money. In other words, more money doesn't indicate a productive approach to improve the quality of education of professors whose work is *not completely* about educating students.

Secondly, for students, professors also is not the singular resolution to benefit their growth. Schools *represent* *a* more suitable location for students who are willing to learn *than other places like home or companies*. When it comes to education, the best source may not always be *professors*. For example, I am willing to attend the courses that are host by a *ardent* professor who concern about the doubt of the students. However, I would not regard the kind of courses as my only learning *means*. To be more specific, I would appreciate and understand how the professor thinks *in respect of* a topic; *then,* I would investigate the topic from other resources which includes online courses, university libraries and some senior students. In short, I would rather anticipate that *schools* utilize those money to supply *more educational* resources *such as* internship assistance for future or more journals in libraries.

Taking into account of all these factors, we may reach the conclusion that providing more money for professors is *not* the only option to enhance the quality of education, which is due half to the burden of professors whose responsibility are hardly always about students and half to students' self-education which is another *intention* that school should *achieve*. Given the aspect, *the* money *should* be spent on other resources rather than the salaries of professors.


## Topic
Do you agree or disagree with the following statement?

To improve the quality of education, universities should spend more money on salaries for university professors.

Use specific reasons and examples to support your answer.