## Essay
Some people argue as if it is a general truth that the best method to let children to face the real life is to motivate them to have a part-time job. To be frank, I can not agree with the statement. Some reasons justifies why I think that part-time job doesn't have any benefit to prepare for adult life, and I would explore only a few of the most important ones here.

To begin with, part-time job is totally different from the officially full-time job. Admittedly, part-time job has only part of chance to understand the challenge that a company or the future would have. The manager of a company, unconsciously or consciously, distinguish part-time position from the real employee. Taking my internship as example, five years ago I worked in an Internet company which provided a chance to me as a programmer to complete my graduation requirement of my university. At that period, I felt that tasks of developing websites are so easy that I underestimates the ability of my colleagues who worked over time and complained about the burden with others. However, I realized that I misunderstood the complexity of their job after I graduated and applied the job of the same company. In the full-time position, I was required to have a meeting with the managers and our clients who frequently change the design and the intention. I also had to spend more time with the colleagues to cultivate a postitive relationship with them. In short, the part-time job usually is easily task for students compared to the real task that I would face in the future.

Secondly, school activities are also effective way to socialize. For example, clubs in universities are not only a place to relish the life of college but also a wonder opportunity to practice how to manage an organization and to cooperate with various people whose personality and strength are all disparate. I used to be responsible for organizing an activity for the club when I was at university. I learned how to limit the budget, what kind of activity is necessary to enhance the relationships of the members, and how to design a whole new activities from draft to discussion with other to fulfillment. While I had a satisfactory job after my graduation, I hardly have the experience of management as what I experienced at school. Put simply, for some skills of handling adult life , the school could be the most signficant to attain those experience and to practice them. 

Taking into account of all these factors, we may reach the conclusion that taking a part-time job is not the best option to help children to  prepare for adult life , which is due half to the limited challenge of part-time job and half to rare experience that can only obtained from the school. 

## Review
Some people argue as if it is a general truth that the best method to *let children brace* the real life is to motivate them to have a part-time job. To be frank, I can not agree with the statement. Some reasons justifies why I think that part-time job does *not* have any benefit to prepare for adult life, and I would explore only a few of the most important ones here.

To begin with, part-time job is totally different from the officially full-time job. Admittedly, part-time job has only part of chance to encounter the challenge that a company or the future would have. **The manager of a company unconsciously or consciously distinguish part-time position from the real employee.** Taking my internship as example, five years ago I worked *at a renowned* company which provided a chance to me as a programmer to complete my graduation requirement of *the* university. At that period, I felt that tasks of developing websites are so easy that I underestimates the ability of my colleagues who often worked over time and complained about the burden with others. However, I realized that I misunderstood the complexity of their job after I graduated and applied the job of the same company. In the full-time position, I **was required to** have *abundant meetings* with the managers and our clients who frequently change the design and the intention. *Otherwise*, I also had to spend more time with the colleagues to cultivate a *positive* relationship with them. In short, the part-time job usually is *painless* task for students compared to the real task that I would face in the future *as an formal employee*.

Secondly, school activities are also *an* effective way to *prepare for the future*. *As a matter of fact, ability of management can not be gained immediately at a part-time job which only demand some uncomplicated skills, such as office software or schedule planning, and active attitude. On the other hand, schools supply more possibilities to practice those knowledge that is not capable of being performed by a recently graduated person.* For example, clubs in universities are not only a place to relish the life of college but also a *wonderful* opportunity to practice how to manage an organization and to cooperate with various people whose personality and strength are completely disparate. *To be specific,* I used to be responsible for organizing an activity for the club when I was at university. *At the period* I learned how to *control the budget*, what kind of activity is necessary to enhance the relationships of the members, and how to design a *fully original* activities from draft to discussion with others to fulfillment. While I *have* a satisfactory job after *the* graduation, I hardly have the experience of management as what I experienced at school. Put simply, for some skills of handling adult life, the school could be the most *significant scene* to attain *the capability* and to *apply* them. 

Taking into account of all these factors, we may reach the conclusion that *solely* taking a part-time job is not the best option to help children to prepare for adult life, which is due half to the limited challenge of part-time job and half to rare experience that can only obtained from the school. *Other approaches also hugely assist teenage in readying for adult life.*

## Vocab
- practice 實踐 == apply == perform == undertake == exercise
- ability 能力 == capability == competence == strength == talent == skill

## Topic
Do you agree or disagree with the following statement?
One of the best ways that parents can help their teenage children prepare for adult life is to encourage them to take a part-time job.
Use specific reasons and examples to support your answer.