## Clarity

1. A good writing means the sentences consist of only its cleanest components.
2. A word that serve no function, a unnecessarily long word, an adverb that repeats the meaning of an already written verb and a passive sentence, all of these, weaken the strength of a sentence.
3. Writers must therefore constantly ask: what am I trying to say? The clear writer is someone clearheaded enough to see this stuff for what it is: fuzz.

## Clutter
1. Take the adjective “personal,” as in “a personal friend of mine,” “his personal feeling” or “her personal physician.” Physicians are physicians, friends are friends. The rest is clutter.
2. Clutter is intentionally used to hide the mistakes.
3. Beware of the **long word that’s no better than the short** word: “assistance” (help), “numerous” (many), “facilitate” (ease), “individual” (man or woman), “remainder” (rest), “initial” (first), “implement” (do), “sufficient” (enough), “attempt” (try), “referred to as” (called)
4. Don’t inflate what needs no inflating: “with the possible exception of” (except), “due to the fact that” (because), “he totally lacked the ability to” (he couldn’t), “until such time as” (until), “for the purpose of” (for).
5. Put brackets around every component in a piece of writing that wasn’t doing useful work. Often just one word got bracketed: *(order up), (smile happily), (tall skyscraper)* or *(a bit), (sort of), (in a sense) which do not tell anything meaningful to readers*. Sometimes, they surround an entire sentence because they repeats the previous sentence or they tells something that reader do not know.

## Style
- **Strip your writing down before you can build it back up**.
- **Later you can bevel the edges or add elegant finials**.
- Every style is organic to the person doing the writing.
- Write in the first person. Even if "I" is not permitted in some types of writing such as news, report, dissertation, you should still gestate within "I" and remove "I" from the writing
- **Writing is an act of ego**, and believing in your own identity and your own opinions.
- Style won't solidify as it takes times to find yourself.

## Audience
- Every reader is a difference individual, thus you can not estimate what kind of reader you will confront.
- Write for yourself.
- Never say anything in writing that you would not comfortably say in conversation. 