## Unity
- The only way to learn to write is to force yourself to produce a certain number if words on a regular basis.
- Unity of pronoun: first person, third person or second person.
- Unity tense: choose the tense in which you are *principally* going to address the reader.
- Unity of mood: any tone is acceptable, but do not mix two or more.
- Ask some following, basic questions:
	1. How much do I want to cover?
	1. What one point do I want to make?
- There is no infinite time to write a book; therefore, think small and decide what corner of your subject to be covered well and stop.
- Every successful piece of nonfiction should leave readers with **one and only one provocative thought**.
- Do not become the prisoner of a preconceived plan. Writing is no respecter of blueprint. In other words, go back to the beginning and rewrite it so that your mood and your style are consistent.

## The Lead and the Ending
- The most important sentence in an article is the first one. The second is less important than the first one, and then third one is less than the second one. And go on.
- There is no definite answer of how long a leading should be.
- Coax the reader a little more; keep him inquisitive.
- **Every paragraph should amplify the one that preceded it**. Give more thought to adding solid detail and less to entertaining the reader.
- You should always collect more material than you will use.
- Try to give your lead a freshness of perception or detail. Sometimes, to just tell a story is an available lead. Sometimes, you can tell your whole story in the first sentence.
- You should give as much thought to choosing your last sentence as you did to your first.
- The positive reason for ending well is that a **good last sentence/paragraph is a joy in itself**. It **gives the reader a lift or surprise**, and it lingers when the article is over.
- What usually works best as an ending is a **quotation**. Go back through your notes to** find some remark that has a sense of finality, or that’s funny, or that adds an unexpected closing detail.**

## Bits & Pieces
- Verbs
	- Use active verbs unless there is no comfortable way.
	- Active verbs leaves no doubt on the action of a sentence.
	- Short is better than long.
	- Don’t choose one that is dull or merely serviceable. **Make active verbs activate your sentences, and avoid the kind that need an appended preposition to complete their work.**
	- Nouns that express a concept are commonly used in bad writing instead of verbs that tell what somebody did.
		- [X] The common reaction *is* incredulous laughter. 
		- [O] Most people just laugh with disbelief.
		- [X] Bemused cynicism *isn’t* the only response to the old system.
		- [O] Some people respond to the old system by turning cynical
		- [X] The current campus hostility *is* a symptom of the change.
		- [O] It’s easy to notice the change—you can see how angry all the students are.
- Adverbs
	- Most adverbs are unnecessary.
	- You will clutter your sentence and annoy the reader *if you choose a verb that has a specific meaning and then add an adverb that carries the same meaning.*
	- Strong verbs are weakened by redundant adverbs. So are adjectives and other parts of speech: “effortlessly easy,” “slightly spartan,” “totally flabbergasted.”
- Adjective
	- Most adjectives are also unnecessary, like adverbs.
	- the rule is simple: make your adjectives do work that needs to be done.
- Little Qualifiers
	- Prune out **the small words that qualify how you feel** and how you think and what you saw: “a bit,” “a little,” “sort of,” “kind of,” “rather,” “quite,” “very,” “too,” “pretty much,” “in a sense”, and so on.
	- Don’t hedge your prose with little timidities. Good writing is lean and confident.
- Punctuation
	1. Period (.)
		- Make sure that the sentence is under control from beginning to end, in syntax and punctuation.
	2. Exclamation Point (!)
		- Don’t use it unless you must to achieve a certain effect.
		- Instead, construct your sentence so that the order of the words will put the emphasis where you want it.
		- Resist using an exclamation point to notify the reader that you are making a joke or being ironic.
	3. Semicolon (;)
		- We associate it with the carefully balanced sentences, the judicious weighing of “on the one hand” and “on the other hand,”
		- It should be **used sparingly** by modern writers of nonfiction.
	4. Dash (-)
		- The dash is used in two ways.
		- One is to **amplify or justify in the second part** of the sentence a thought you stated in the first part.
			- We decided to keep going—it was only 100 miles more and we could get there in time for dinner.
		- The other use involves two dashes, which **set apart a parenthetical thought** within a longer sentence.
			- She told me to get in the car—she had been after me all summer to have a haircut—and we drove silently into town.
	5. Colon
		- Many of its functions have been taken over by the dash.
		- Express an itemized list
			- The brochure said the ship would stop at the following ports: Oran, Algiers, Naples, Brindisi, Piraeus, Istanbul and Beirut.
- Mood Changer
	- Alert the reader as soon as possible to any change in mood from the previous sentence.
	- But & However
		- You can put BUT at the start of a sentence.
		- If you **need relief** from too many sentences beginning with “but,” switch to “however.”
		- Don’t start a sentence with “however” or end with however. **Put it as early as you reasonably can.**
	- Yet, Nevertheless, Still, Instead, Thus, Therefore
		- “Yet” does almost the same job as “but,” though its meaning is closer to “nevertheless.”
		- Look for all the places where one of these short words will instantly convey the same meaning as a long and dismal clause.
	- Meanwhile, Now, Later, Today, Subsequently
		- Careless writers often change their time frame without remembering to tip the reader off.
		- These words always make sure your readers are oriented.
- Contraction
	- Contraction like "I'll", "won't" and "can't" bring readers warmer and truer feeling of your personality.
	- Avoid "I'd", "he'd", "we'd", etc. -- because “I’d” can mean both “I had” and “I would”.
- That or Which
	- “that” is by far the predominant usage. **Always use “that” unless it makes your meaning ambiguous.**
	- If your sentence needs a comma to achieve its precise meaning, it probably needs “which.” A high proportion of “which” usages narrowly describe, or identify, or locate, or explain, or otherwise qualify the phrase
		- The house, which has a red roof
		- The store, which is called Bob’s Hardware
		- The Rhine, which is in Germany,
- Expression
	- Don’t overstate. There’s nothing more interesting than the truth.
	- Do not to nudge the reader with significance by the word like *“surprisingly,” “predictably” and “of course.”*
	- Don’t inflate an incident to make it more outlandish than it actually was.
	- Avoid dictating. Dictated sentences tend to be pompous, sloppy and redundant.
- Sexism
	- Makeshift words like “chairperson” and “spokeswoman” sometimes hurting the cause more than helping it.
		1. One solution is to find another term: “chair” for “chairman,” “company representative” for “spokesman”, "performer" for "actor or actress."
		2. Convert the noun into a verb: “Speaking for the company, Ms. Jones said …”
	- Pronoun: he/him/his, she/her/her
		1. One solution is to turn them into the plural: they/them/their. But this is good only in small doses. Plurals weaken writing because they are less specific than the singular,
		2. Another common solution is to use “or”: he or she, him or her, or his or her. This should be used sparingly.
		3. The best solutions simply eliminate “he” and its connotations of male ownership by using other pronouns or by altering some other component of the sentence.
			- “We” is a handy replacement for “he.” “Our” and “the” can often replace “his.”
			- One other pronoun that helped me in my repairs was “you.” it’s a godsend to anyone writing an instructional book or a self-help book.
- Rewrite
	- Often a difficult problem in a sentence can be solved by simply getting rid of it.
	- When you find yourself at such an impasse, look at the troublesome element and ask, “Do I need it at all?”
	- **Keep your paragraphs short** because a long chunk of type can discourage a reader from even starting to read.
	- However, **a succession of tiny paragraphs is as annoying as a paragraph that’s too long.**
	- Writing is an evolving process, not a finished product.
	- Most rewriting consists of **reshaping and tightening and refining the raw material** you wrote on your first try.
	- Read your article aloud from beginning to end, always remembering where you left the reader in the previous sentence.
		- "The tragic hero of the play is Othello. Small and malevolent, Iago feeds his jealous suspicions." The name lingering in the reader’s ear is Othello; t*he reader naturally assumes that Othello is small and malevolent.*

