## Essay
Depending on personal experience, personality type and emotional concern, we find that some people hold the idea of interrupting and correcting the error in in a classroom or a meeting, meanwhile others prefer to waiting do it until the end or saying nothing. From my point of view, it more advisable to interrupt and correct the error immediately rather than the other options. Some reasons justifies why I prefer to correct it as soon as possible, and I would explore only a few of the most important ones here.

To begin with, there is no reason not to correct the error if your attitude is positive. For example, I usually raise my questions during the meeting of my company since I would like to realize more details and thought of the boss or the managers. It does seem to a serious problem in a meeting or a course when interrupting the progress if some error or mistakes exist. Some people are timid to interrupt in that they are afraid to embarrass the teachers of the leaders. However, it is not embarrassing that ask a questions that you or other could have. Afterwards, some people would be grateful to your behavior being that they hold the same doubt but dare not to speak it. In short, asking to correct some error is an undesirable action. Furthermore, how do you absolutely assure your answer is correct if you do not check it with the teacher or meeting leader.

Secondly, some mistakes are not so petty that urgent correction is required. For instance, you have studied the textbook used for a course or have designed a business plan that other colleagues do not know; and then, the teacher mention a concept that is different from the textbook or the managers report your work with wrong perception. In these kind of occasions, you may be the only one who know that some considerable error exists in the situation. On the other words, there is nobody know that it is an mistake, every one, besides you, would take it as the truth that is totally misunderstood. Put simply, you should point out the error and correct it to prevent other from taking it genuine and repeating the same error over and over.

Taking into account of all these factors, we may reach the conclusion that in most of cases the best opinion is to interrupt and correct the mistake right away, which is due half to unembarrassment by the right attitude and half to little knowing from others.

## Reviewed
**Depending on personal experience, personality type and emotional concern, we find that some people hold the idea of** interrupting and correcting the error *when someone says some incorrect in a classroom or a meeting*, **meanwhile others prefer to** waiting for it until the end or saying nothing. **From my point of view, it more advisable to** interrupt and correct the error immediately **rather than the other options.** Some reasons justifies why I prefer to correct it as soon as possible, and I would explore only a few of the most important ones here.

To begin with, there is no reason not to correct the error if your attitude is positive. *Admittedly, interrupting and point out other's errors are frequently deemed as offensive according to their approach to inquiring. By appropriate means and attitude, interrupting to acquire a right solution become little unsuitable.* For example, I usually raise my questions during the meeting of my company since I would like to realize more details and thought of the boss or the managers. *Interrupting the progress, if some errors or mistakes exist, does* *not* seem to *be* a serious problem in a meeting or a course. Some people are timid to interrupt in that they are *afraid of* *embarrassing* the teachers *or* the leaders. However, it is not embarrassing that ask a questions that you or other could have. Afterwards, some people would be grateful for your behavior being that they hold the same doubt but dare not to speak it. In short, *pleading* to *fix* some *errors* is not an undesirable action at all. Furthermore, how do you absolutely assure your answer is correct if you do not check it with the teacher or the meeting leader.

Secondly, some mistakes are not so petty that urgent correction is required. *While some faults can be perceived by most people that undergo basic education, others can only be amended by a fraction of specific people, or even an individual* For instance, you have studied the textbook used for a course or have designed a business plan that other colleagues do not know; and then, the teacher mention a concept that is different from the textbook or the managers report your work with wrong perception. In the kind of occasions, you may be the only one who know that some considerable error exists in the situation. On the other words, there is nobody know that it is an mistake, every one, besides you, would take it as the truth that is totally misunderstood. Put simply, you should point out the error and correct it to prevent *others* from taking it *as truth* and repeating the same error over and over.

Taking into account of all these factors, we may reach the conclusion that in most of cases the best *option* is to interrupt and correct the mistake right away, which is due half to the fact that *it is not embarrassing to execute the right things* and half to the fact that *not everyone know whether there is a mistake.* *Given the elements, talking it later or saying nothing are less seemly choices.*

## Vocab
- understanding 理解/認知 = perception = comprehension = impression = knowledge = thought = viewpoint

## Topic
Imagine that you are in a classroom or a meeting. The teacher or the meeting leader says something incorrect. In your opinion, which of the following is the best thing to do?

- Interrupt and correct the mistake right away
- Wait until the class or meeting is over and the people are gone, and then talk to the teacher or meeting leader
- Say nothing

Use specific reasons and examples to support your answer.