## Essay
The reading and the lecture are both about whether pterosaurs can fly or not. The author of the reading feels that some arguments showed that pterosaurs did not have the ability to fly, whereas the lecturer challenges the claims made by the author. In short, she is of the opinion that pterosaurs were capable of flying.

To begin with, the author contends that pterosaurs like ancient reptiles were the cold-blooded animal which have a slow metabolism. The article mentions that powered flight expenses huge energy which can not be produced by cold-blooded animals. The specific argument is challenged by the lecturer who claims that recent researches indicated that pterosaurs were covered by a dense, hair-like covering. Additionally, she says that the kind of covering helped them to have a higher temperature than ancient reptiles. Thus, they would have additional energy to support their flight.

Secondly, the writer suggests that the necessary requirement to fly is to be light enough. In the article, it is said that the relatively enormous size of pterosaurs like a giraffe imply they are too heavy to fly. The lecturer, however, rebuts this by remarking that pterosaurs had some special anatomical structure that makes them lighter than the semblance. Furthermore, she elaborates on this by bringing the point that in the body of pterosaurs there were some light-weighted bone which made their body lighter.

Finally, the author posits that animals with powered flight must take off from the ground or jump high enough before the flight. Moreover, it is said in the article that fossils of pterosaurs exhibited that their back leg is so weak that they can not fun fast or high enough, compared to typical birds. In contrast, the lecturer's position is that pterosaurs utilized different mechanism which is used by birds. She notes that, rather than using the two back legs, pterosaurs used their all four legs to run before taking flight. Using all legs cause pterosaurs to have sufficient power to launch themselves into the air.

## Review
The reading and the lecture are both about whether pterosaurs can fly or not. The author of the reading feels that some arguments showed that pterosaurs did not have the ability to fly, whereas the lecturer challenges the claims made by the author. In short, she is of the opinion that pterosaurs were capable of flying.

To begin with, the author contends that pterosaurs like ancient reptiles were the cold-blooded animal which have a slow metabolism. The article mentions that powered flight *consumes* huge energy which can not be produced by cold-blooded animals. The specific argument is challenged by the lecturer who claims that recent researches indicated that pterosaurs were covered by a dense, hair-like covering. Additionally, she says that the kind of covering helped them to have a higher temperature than ancient reptiles. Thus, they would have additional energy to support their flight.

Secondly, the writer suggests that the necessary requirement to fly is to be light enough. In the article, it is said that the relatively enormous size of pterosaurs like a giraffe imply they were *too* heavy to fly. The lecturer, however, rebuts this by remarking that pterosaurs had some special anatomical structure that makes them lighter than the semblance. Furthermore, she elaborates on this by bringing the point that in the body of pterosaurs there were some *hollow*, light-weight bone which made their body lighter *than it seemed*.

Finally, the author posits that animals with powered flight must take off from the ground or jump high enough before the flight. Moreover, it is said in the article that fossils of pterosaurs exhibited that their back leg is so weak that they can not fun fast to *jump* high enough, compared to typical birds. In contrast, the lecturer's position is that pterosaurs utilized different mechanism which is used by birds. She notes that, rather than using the two back legs, pterosaurs used their all four legs to run before taking flight. Using all legs cause pterosaurs to have sufficient power to launch themselves into the air.

## Passage
Pterosaurs were an ancient group of winged reptiles that lived alongside the dinosaurs. Many pterosaurs were very large, some as large as a giraffe and with a wingspan of over 12 meters. Paleontologists have long wondered whether large pterosaurs were capable of powered flight (flying by flapping their wings) or whether they were able only to glide. Several arguments have been made against powered flight.

Doubters point out that since modern reptiles are cold-blooded, ancient reptiles such as pterosaurs were probably cold-blooded as well. Cold-blooded animals typically have a slow metabolism and are unable to produce a lot of energy. Powered flight is an activity requiring a lot of energy, which is why all modern vertebrates that fly are warm-blooded, not cold-blooded. It seemed unlikely that pterosaurs would have been able to generate the energy needed to fly.

Second, there is a limit to the weight of animals that can be kept airborne by powered flight. Pterosaurs that were as large as a giraffe were probably so heavy that they would not have been able to flap their wings fast enough to stay aloft for any length of time.

Third, all animals with powered flight are able to take off from the ground. For example, birds take off by jumping from their legs or running to gain speed and then jumping. But these methods would not have worked for large pterosaurs. Large pterosaurs would have needed big, powerful muscles in their back legs to launch themselves into the air, and we know from fossilized bones that their back leg muscles were too small and weak to allow the pterosaurs to run fast enough or jump high enough to launch themselves into the air.

## Lecture
Now listen to part of a lecture on the topic you just read about.

Recent research has revealed that pterosaurs may, in fact, have been capable of powered flight.

First, the issue of pterosaur metabolism. Some recently discovered pterosaur fossils indicate that pterosaurs had a **dense, hairlike covering**, somewhat similar to fur. Hair or fur covering is **typical of warm-blooded animals because those animals need to maintain a high body temperature** when external conditions are cold. So, if the metabolism of pterosaurs was more like that of warm-blooded animals, and so faster than the reading suggests, then **it would have supplied them with the energy needed for powered flight.**

Second, the idea that large pterosaurs couldn’t use powered flight because they were too heavy. We now know that pterosaurs had **anatomical features that made them unusually light for their size**. For example, **the bones of pterosaurs were hollow instead of solid.** Hollow, lightweight bones would have kept the pterosaurs’ **weight low** despite their large body frames. The pterosaurs’ weight was probably low enough to allow them to keep themselves airborne by flapping their wings. 

Third, takeoff would indeed be a problem for pterosaurs—if they took off the way birds do. But there are important differences between birds and pterosaurs. **Birds only use their hind limbs**—their legs—for walking on the ground, so they only have two limbs to push off from when they launch. But pterosaurs walked on all four limbs while on the ground. **There are modern flying animals that walk on all four limbs—bats**, for example—and they use all four limbs to push off the ground, not just the back ones. Studies indicate that even the **largest pterosaurs would’ve had no trouble using all four limbs to run fast enough or jump high enough to launch themselves into the air.**