## Essay
The reading and the lecture are both about online communal encyclopedias. The author of the reading feels that communality makes them less valuable than traditional ones, whereas the lecturer challenges the claims made by the author. In short, she is of the opinion that the number of the advantages is still more than of the disadvantages.

To begin with, the author contends that the content of traditional encyclopedias is more convincing due to the trained experts. The articles mention that online communal encyclopedias are often edited by the people who lack professional knowledge. The specific argument is challenged by the lecturer who claims online ones cause the errors to be corrected more quickly. Additionally, she says that both traditional and online communal encyclopedias include many errors. Compared to online ones, the traditional would keep those faults even for decades.

Secondly, the writer suggests that online ones give chance to hackers who fabricate, delete, and corrupt the information. In the article, it is said that the fake content could not occur in traditional ones since it is better for most people who cannot distinguish whether the information is falsified or not. The lecturer, however, rebuts this idea by remarking that online communal encyclopedias actually provides many kinds of security systems which prevent from intentional corruption. Furthermore, she elaborates on this by bringing up the point that there are a mode which restricts any modification and an employee whose responsibility is to monitor those changes.

Finally, the author posits that the quantity of some subjects make them to be deemed more important than other topics. Moreover, it is stated in the article that traditional ones provides a more considered content about a topic to a reasonable extent. In contrast, the lecturer's position is that there is limited space to compile an encyclopedia. She notes that the popular topic reflecting the public's interests is the superlative advantage that traditional ones cannot have.

## Review
The reading and the lecture are both about online communal encyclopedias. The author of the reading feels that communality makes them less valuable than traditional ones, whereas the lecturer challenges the claims made by the author. In short, she is of the opinion that the number of the advantages is still more than of the disadvantages.

To begin with, the author contends that the content of traditional encyclopedias is more convincing due to the trained experts. The *article mentions* that online communal encyclopedias are often edited by the people who lack professional knowledge. The specific argument is challenged by the lecturer who claims online ones cause the errors to be corrected more quickly. Additionally, she says that both *classic* and online communal encyclopedias include many errors. Compared to modern ones, traditional ones would keep those faults even for decades.

Secondly, the writer suggests that online ones give chance to hackers who fabricate, delete, and corrupt the information. In the article, it is said that the *distorting* could not occur in traditional ones, *and thus* *they are* better for most people who cannot distinguish whether the information is falsified or not. The lecturer, however, rebuts this idea by remarking that online communal encyclopedias actually provides many kinds of security systems which prevent them from intentional corruption. Furthermore, she elaborates on this by bringing up the point that there are a mode which restricts any modification and an *special editor* whose responsibility is to monitor those changes.

Finally, the author posits that the quantity of some subjects *makes* the subjects to be deemed more *substantive* than other topics. Moreover, it is stated in the article that traditional ones provides *more* considered sections about a topic *to the reasonable extent*. In contrast, the lecturer's position is that there is limited space to compile an *old-fashioned* encyclopedia. She notes that the popular topic reflecting the public's interests, *in fact*, is the *most powerful* advantage that traditional ones cannot have.

## Vocab
- content 內容 == chapters == section == subjects == substance == elements == items
- traditional 傳統 == conventional == classic == long-established == old-fashioned == standard == routine 
- error 錯誤 == failure == fault == glitch == mistake

## Lecture
Now listen to part of a lecture on the topic you just read about.

The communal online encyclopedia will probably never be perfect, but that’s a small price to pay for what it does offer. The criticisms in the reading are largely the result of *prejudice* against and ignorance about how far online encyclopedias have come.

First, **errors**: It’s hardly a fair criticism that encyclopedias online have errors. Traditional encyclopedias have never been close to perfectly accurate. If you’re looking for a really comprehensive reference work without any mistakes, you’re not going to find it—on- or off-line. The real point is that **it’s easy for errors in factual material to be corrected in an online encyclopedia—but with the printed and bound encyclopedia, the errors remain for decades.**

Second, **hacking**: online encyclopedias have recognized the importance of **protecting their articles** from malicious hackers. One strategy they started using is to put the crucial facts in the articles that nobody disputes in a **‘read-only’ format, which is a format that no one can make changes to**. That way you’re making sure that the crucial facts in the articles are reliable. Another strategy that’s being used is to have **special editors whose job is to monitor all changes made to the articles and eliminate those changes that are clearly malicious.**

Third, what’s worth knowing about: The problem for **traditional encyclopedias is that they have limited space,** so they have to decide what’s important and what’s not. And in practice, the judgments of the group of academics that make these decisions don’t reflect the great range of interests that people really have. But space is definitely not an issue for online encyclopedias. The academic articles are still represented in online encyclopedias, but **there can be a great variety of articles and topics that accurately reflect the great diversity of users’ interests. The diversity of views and topics that online encyclopedias offer is one of their strongest advantages.**

## Passage
Communal online encyclopedias represent one of the latest resources to be found on the Internet. They are in many respects like traditional printed encyclopedias collections of articles on various subjects. What is specific to these online encyclopedias, however, is that any Internet user can contribute a new article or make an editorial change in an existing one. As a result, the encyclopedia is authored by the whole community of Internet users. The idea might sound attractive, but the communal online encyclopedias have several important problems that make them much less valuable than traditional, printed encyclopedias.

First, contributors to a communal online encyclopedia often lack academic credentials, thereby making their contributions partially informed at best and downright inaccurate in many cases. Traditional encyclopedias are written by trained experts who adhere to standards of academic rigor that nonspecialists cannot really achieve.

Second, even if the original entry in the online encyclopedia is correct, the communal nature of these online encyclopedias gives unscrupulous users and vandals or hackers the opportunity to fabricate, delete, and corrupt information in the encyclopedia. Once changes have been made to the original text, an unsuspecting user cannot tell the entry has been tampered with. None of this is possible with a traditional encyclopedia.

Third, the communal encyclopedias focus too frequently, and in too great a depth, on trivial and popular topics, which creates a false impression of what is important and what is not. A child doing research for a school project may discover that a major historical event receives as much attention in anonline encyclopedia as, say, a single long-running television program. The traditional encyclopedia provides a considered view of what topics to include or exclude and contains a sense of proportion that online "democratic" communal encyclopedias do not.