## 16min

Some people argues as if it is a general truth, that sports and social activities is less significant classes and libraries. To be frank, I don't agree with them. Some reasons justifies why I hold confidence on the topic statement, and I would explore a few of most important ones here.

To begin with, social activities provide a way to use something taught in classes. In other word, they relatively foster further the ability of applying learned knowledge rather than as metaphysics. Unless students have chances to adapt those theory or wisdom by themselves, they would never realize those intelligence and how to practice them. Taking my experience as example, I majored in computer science and I learned a vast array of essential knowledge about programming. I could accomplish the kind of assignment very well, but, however, I didn't know which situation in real software companies those knowledge can be used until my first internship. I went about developing a new website. Eventually, after I finished the project, I realized that the limitation of what I had learned, not to mention another applicability I had not been aware.

Secondly, the institutions should not discriminate against those prefer sports and social activities on account of everyone's unique characteristic and propensity. Both the non-educational activities and educational hardware, such as classes, professor or libraries, are an investment to the students, also, for schools. Schools are as companies whose ultimate purpose is to earn profit; therefore, it seems risky to put all their finance only in educational basket. For instance, a few years ago I met a person, who major in the Chinese faculty. in the cooking club of the university.. I is amazing that he made every dishes with his full attention. At that time, he told me that his was operating a small restaurant which didn't make an appreciable buck and that he desired to refine the restaurant. Until last year, I found him on a television show which introduces sensational restaurant; and what is more, he attributed his achievements to the club and the university. while this kind of behavior, without a doubt, is humility, it still was a promotion which could boost the impending number of enrollment by its positive reputation, which raise revenue of the university.

Taking into account of all these factors, we may reach the conclusion that sports and social activities should be treated with equal support and same emphasis as classes and libraries, which is due half to the fact that social activities help students to practice what they have learned and half to the fact that sports and club also enhance the profit. Thus, I agree with that the treatment between them should be impartial.

## 20 min
It is a highly debated issue that telling truth is the most pivotal consideration in people's relationship. As far as I am concerned, I agree with the statement. Some reasons justifies why I believe that relationship depend on truth, and I would explore a few of the most important ones here.

To begin with, endless relationship is based on trust. Some relation will meet its end sooner or later, but, however, some friends are maintained for a prolonged time, even forever. In fact, what makes the difference is if the person is trustworthy or not. In other words, you never confide your fear or embarrassment to the one you do not trust. as an illustration of my experience. I lost a long-term friendship that associated with my male intimated who had contact me once due to my dishonesty. We used to share the thought of many subjects and, also, private things by the time that I pursued a girl who I revealed many things including mine and also his for acquiring her affection. Subsequently, there are some negative rumors concerning him that I didn't acknowledge as my wrongdoing. No sooner had we graduated, he had not contact me once. After a while, I heard that he actually was acquainted with the girl who disclose what I told her. Up to now I still regret that I didn't confess the truth that I leaked his secret.

Secondly, knowing the truth stimulate people to advance. To be specific, people might not be willing to listen the truth, whereas some truth reveal our weakness and hence makes us to refine ourselves. Assuming that a person only ingratiate other people, he or she will lose the confidence of others in the future. Taking my colleague for example, he willingly expose his honest impression whatever the situation such as a meeting and busy period. At first, he was dislike by his coworkers including me. After a while, I perceived that his advises and assessment are so helpful that I actually ameliorate my performance on the job for the reason that I received the manager's approbation for the task that was criticized by the colleague. I would recognize him as one of my best friends even though we don't have any connection out of the company.

Taking into account of all factors, we may reach the conclusion that being honest is the most significant behavior in the relationship, which is due half to building of permanent relationship basing on trust and half to advancement inspired by honest remark. Considering the reasons, there are not factor which is as influential as telling the truth.