## Essay
It is a highly debated issue that modern people are better to control their life by themselves than by their parents. As far as I am concerned, I agree with the statement. Some reasons justifies why I think people can get rid of parents' control nowadays, and I would explore only a few of the most important ones here.

To begin with, with improvement transportation and lower fee people may have more chances to explore the world that they have never experienced before. To be specific, in the past people frequently lived in the same region which could relatively small comparing to the present from birth to death. Most of our ancestors could not afford the steep price to take on a reliable ship to travel to another continent; and thus, they usually lived in a location that is close to the parents or the whole family. However, with the invention and commonness of airplane, we can explore an new area that has an completely disparate industries, culture and people. By the increasing opportunities, people become so adventurous that they desire to manipulate their own lives by leaving the place that they had lived and restriction of parents. Put simply, generalization of state-of-art transportation provides more opportunities to the people that become more incentive to control their lives.

Secondly, with the development of technology career choices became more diversified. People can pick their own paths without following the trace of their parents which needed to follow theirs to attain more affluent lives. For instance, in the past, working in a farm or in a factory is the most common job that required only limited ability. However, as soon as the modern computer and the internet grew popular, the people started to realize there are more opinions of the career. They can be a programmer who use the device every day, an artist who use the computer as his or her canvas, or an teacher who utilize the internet to acquire more knowledge that is used to teach children. As the career choices improve, where they can work also increase. They can search an job from the internet and submit their resume to every cities around the world, such as Paris, New Yorker, and Tokyo. On the other words, people have so much more areas to explore that it is not necessary and undesirable to stay in the same within their whole life.

Taking into account of all these factors, we may reach the conclusion that people acquire more possibilities to direct their own lives, which is due half to the generalization of cheap and long-distance transportation and half to the change in career choice which scatter in the whole world. Given the elements, people become more independent and desire to manipulate their personal achievement.

## Review
It is a highly debated issue that modern people are better to control their life by themselves than by their parents. As far as I am concerned, I agree with the statement. Some reasons justifies why I think people *tend to* get rid of parents' control nowadays, and I would explore only a few of the most important ones here.

To begin with, with improvement of transportation and lower fee people may have more chances to explore the world that they have never experienced before. To be specific, in the past people frequently lived in the same region which could relatively small comparing to the present from birth to death. Most of our ancestors could not afford the steep price to take on a reliable ship to travel to another continent; and thus, they usually lived in a location that is close to the parents or the whole family. However, with the invention and commonness of *the* airplane, we can explore an new area that *has completely* disparate industries, culture and people. *Furthermore, by virtue of the alternative*, people become so adventurous that they desire to manipulate their own lives by leaving the place that they had lived and restriction of parents. Put simply, generalization of state-of-art transportation provides more opportunities to people that become more incentive to control their lives.

Secondly, with the development of technology career choices became more diversified. People *could* pick their own paths without following the trace of their parents *who* needed to follow theirs to attain more affluent lives. For instance, in the past, working in a farm or in a factory is the most common job that required only limited ability; *be that as it may,* as soon as the modern computer and the internet grew popular, the people started to realize there are more opinions of the career. They *are capable of being* programmer who use the device every day, an artist who use the computer as his or her canvas, or an teacher who utilize the internet to acquire more knowledge that is used to teach children. *Moreover*, as the career choices *improved*, where they can work also *increased*. They are able to search an job from the internet and submit their resume to *companies in various cities* around the world, such as Paris, New Yorker, and Tokyo. On the other words, people have so much more areas to explore that it is *unnecessary* and undesirable to stay in the same location *during* their whole life.

Taking into account of all these factors, we may reach the conclusion that people acquire more possibilities to direct their own lives, which is due half to the generalization of cheap and long-distance transportation and half to the change in career *choices* which scatter *around* the whole world. Given the elements, people become more independent and desire to manipulate their personal achievement.

## Vocab
+ increase (n)增加 == growth == escalation == increment == inflation == rise

## Topic
Do you agree or disagree with the following statement?

In the past, young people depended too much on their parents to make decisions for them; today young people are better able to make decisions about their own lives.

Use specific reasons and examples to support your answer.